## Intro (0:00–1:07)
Chat GPT has got 8 or 900 million weekly
active users. And if you're the kind of
person who is using this for hours every
day, ask yourself why five times more
people look at it, get it, know what it
is, have an account, know how to use it,
and can't think of anything to do with
it this week or next week. The term AI
is a little bit like the term
technology. When something's been around
any for a while, it's not AI anymore. Is
machine learning still AI? I don't know.
In actual general usage, AI seems to
mean new stuff. And AGI seems new scary

stuff.
>> AGI seems to be a bit a little bit like
this. Like either it's already here and
it's just small software or it's 5 years
away and will always be 5 years away. We
don't know the physical limits of this
technology and so we don't know how much
better it can get. You've got Samman
saying we've got PhD level researchers
right now and Demis says no we don't
shut up. Very new, very very big, very
very exciting world changing things tend
to lead bubbles. So yeah, if we're not
in a bubble now, we will be.

>> Benedict, welcome back to the Asenz
podcast.
>> Good to be back.
>> We're here to discuss your latest
presentation, AI eats the world. So for
## AI's Impact, Platform Shifts and Historical Comparisons (1:07–3:12)
those who haven't read it yet, maybe we
can go share the highlevel thesis and
and maybe contextualize it in light of
recent AI presentations, I'm curious how
how your thinking h has evolved.
>> Yeah, it's funny. One of the slides in
the debt references a conversation where
I had with a big company CMO who said
we've all had lots of AI presentations
now like  we've had the Google
one and we've had the Google one and the
Microsoft one. We've had the Bane one
and the BCG one. We've had the one from
from Accenture and the one from our ad
agency. Um so now what? So

um what's it's it's sort of 90 odd
slides. So there kind of there's a bunch
of different things I'm trying to get
at. One of them is I think just to say
well if this is a platform shift or more
than a platform shift how do platform
shifts tend to work? What are the things
that we tend to see in it? And how many
of those patterns can we see being
repeated now? And of course those some

of the patterns that come out of that
are things like bubbles but another
others are that lots of stuff changes
inside the tech industry and you know
there are winners and losers and people
who were dominant end up becoming
irrelevant and then there were new
billion trillion dollar companies
created but then there's also what does
this mean outside the tech industry
because if we think back over the last
waves of platform shifts there were some
industries where this changed everything
and created and uncreated industries and
there others where this was just kind of
a useful tool like so you know if you're
in the newspaper business that had a
very different impact the last 30 years
look very different to if you were in
the cement business where you know the
internet was just kind of useful but
didn't really change the nature of your
industry very much and so what I tried
to do is give people a sense of well

what is it that's going on in tech how
much money are we spending what are we
trying to do what are the unanswered
questions what might or might not happen

um within the tech industry
But then outside technology, how does
this tend to play out? What seems to be
happening at the moment? How is this
manifesting into tools and deployment

and new use cases and new behaviors?
## Generative AI: Potential and Challenges (3:12–6:12)
And then as we kind of step back from
all of this, how many times have we get
again, how many times have we gone
through all of this before? You know,
they it's funny. I went on a podcast
this summer and I sort of opening line I
said something like, well, you know, I'm
a centrist. I think this is as big a
deal as the internet or smartphones, but
only as big a deal as the internet or
smartphones. And there's like 200
YouTube commenters underneath saying,
you know, this more and he doesn't
understand how big this is. And I think,
well,
>> it was kind of a big deal. It was kind
of a big deal.
>> Um, and you know, I sort of finished the
day by by looking at elevators cuz I I
live in an apartment building in
Manhattan and we have an attended
elevator, which means it's there's a
hand there's no buttons, there's an
accelerator and a brake and the doorman
gets in and drives you to your floor.
this street car. And in the ' 50s, Otis

deployed automatic elevators. And then
you get in and you press a button. And
they marketed it by saying, "Ah, it's
got electronic politeness."
Your which means the infrared beam.

And today when you get into an elevator,
you don't say, "Ah, I'm using an
electronic elevator. It's automatic.
It's just a lift." which is what
happened with databases and with the web

and with smartphones and I kind of think
now it's funny I did I've done a couple
of polls on this in LinkedIn and threads
of like is machine learning still AI is
AI is kind of in AI is the word the term

AI is a little bit like the term
technology or automation it see it only

kind of applies when something's new
once something's been around any for a
while it's not AI AI anymore so like
databases certainly aren't AI is machine
learning still AI Hey. Uh, I don't know.

I mean, and there's obviously there's
like an academic definition where people
say, "This guy's an idiot." No, of
course I'm going to explain the
definition of AI, but then in in actual
general usage, AI seems to mean new
stuff.
>> Yeah. And AGI seems, you know, like new

scary stuff.
>> Yeah. It's funny. There's I was thinking
about this. There's an old theologian's
joke that um the problem for Jews is
that you wait and wait and wait for the
Messiah and he never comes. And the
problem for Christians is that he came
and nothing happened. like you know the
world didn't change like there is still
sin you know like like like all
practical purposes nothing happened and
AGI seems to be a bit a little bit like
this like either it's already here and
so you've got Sam Alman saying we've got
PhD level researchers right now and
Demis says what no we don't shut it

and so either it's already
here and it's just more software or it's

5 years away and will always be 5 years
away.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's um it's interesting.
Let's compare back to previous platform
shifts because some people you know look
at you know something like the internet
and say hey there were net new trillion
dollar companies you know Facebook and
Google u that that were created from it
and just sort of all sorts of new
emerging winners whereas they look at
something like mobile and say hey you
know there were big companies like Uber
and Snap and and uh Instagram and
WhatsApp but these were you know these
were billion dollar outcomes or or tens
of billion dollar outcomes but really
the big winners were were in fact
## AI's Market Dynamics and Investment (6:12–8:28)
Facebook and Google. Um, and and so in
some sense, mobile perhaps was
sustaining. Um, you feel free to quibble
with the definition of, you know,
sustaining disruptive, but sustaining in
the sense that maybe more of the value
went to incumbents or or or companies
that existed prior to the to the to the
shift. I'm I'm I'm curious how you think
about AI in in in in light of that in
terms of is it enabling is more of the
gains coming from you know net new going
to come to net new companies like like
open AI and anthropic and others that
that follow or um you know are more of
the gains going to be captured by you
know Microsoft and and and and Google
and Facebook and and meta and you know
companies that existed prior.
>> So I think it's well there's several
answers to this. One of them is like you
kind of have to be careful about like
framings and structures and things
because you end up arguing about the
framing and the definition rather than
arguing about what's going to happen.
And you know they're all useful but they
all they've all got holes in them. And

you know that what what what mobile did
was it kind of it it it shifted us you

know there's a bunch of things that it
changed fundamentally. It shifted us
from the web to apps for example and it
gave everybody on the world a a phone.
It gave everybody on the world a pocket
computer. So even today there's less
than a billion consumer PCs on earth and
there's something between five and six
billion smartphones and um it made

possible things that would not have been
possible without it whether that's Tik
Tok or arguably I think things like
online dating and you know the the you

can map those against dollar value you
can also map those against kind of
structural change in consumer behavior
and access to information and things and

I think you could certainly argue that
Meta would be a much smaller company if
it wasn't for mobile for example. So you

know you can kind of argue the puts and
calls on on on this stuff a lot. Um
there certainly you know not all
platform shifts are the same and you
know you can do the sort of standard
sort of teology of say well there were
mainframes and then PCs and then the web
and then smartphones but you kind of
want to put SAS in there somewhere and
you kind of want to put open source in
there and maybe you want to put
databases and so you know these are kind
of useful framings but like they're not
predictive. They don't tell you what's
going to happen. they just kind of give
you one way of understanding what seems

some of the patterns that that that we
have here. Um and of course the big
## AI Deployment and Use Cases (8:28–10:22)
debate around generative AI is this is
is just another platform shift or is it
something more than that and of course
the problem is we don't know and we
don't have any way of knowing other than
waiting to see. So this may be as big as
PCs or the web or SAS or or open source
or something or it may be as big as
computing and then you got the very
overexited people living in group houses
in Berkeley who think you know this is
as big as fire or something. Well, well,
great. Um, but but but does this create
new companies? I mean, you go back to
the mobile, you know, there was a time
when people thought that blogs were
going to be a diff different to the web,
which seems weird now, like Google
needed like a separate blog search. This
was seriously this was a thing. Um,
there was a time when it was really not
clear, and I think you kind of
generalize his point.
You go back to the internet in the mid
'9s, you know, we kind of knew this was
going to be a big thing. We didn't
really know it was going to be the web.
So before that, we didn't know it was
going to be the internet. We knew there
were going to be networks. We w didn't
know it wasn't clear it was going to be
the internet. Then it wasn't clear it
was going to be the web. Then it wasn't
really clear how the web was going to
work. And you know when when Netscape

launched like Mark Zuckerberg was in
junior high or you know elementary
school or something and you know Larry
and Sergey were students and like Amazon
was a bookstore. So you can know it but

not know it. And you could make the same
point about smartphones like it was we
knew everyone was going to have an
internet connected thing in their pocket
but it was not clear it was basically
going to be a PC from this has been PC
company from the 80s and a search engine
company. It was not clear it wasn't
going to be Nocu Microsoft. See I think
you have to be super careful in like
predict making making kind of
deterministic predictions about this.
What you can do is say, well,

when this stuff happens, everything
changes. And that's happened five or 10
times before.
>> I'm curious how you got conviction in
this idea or we got the prediction that
hey, AI is going to be as big as the
internet, which of course is pretty big,
but I'm not yet I benedict. I'm not yet
## AI's Future and Speculations (10:22–19:33)
at the conviction that it's going to be
any bigger. I'm curious what what sort
of inspires that sort of uh, you know,

sort of state statement. And then also,
what might change your mind either way?
you know that it might not be as big as
the internet because of course the
internet was obviously very big uh but
also that hey perhaps it might be bigger

>> well so I think you know I don't want to
I remember I made a diagram of kind of
scurves kind of going up slightly
someone said well what's the axis on
this diagram I you know I don't want to
kind of get into you know is this is
this 5% bigger than than internet or is
it 20% bigger I think the question is
more like is it another of these
industry cycles or is it a much more
fundamental change in in what technology
can be is it more like computing or
electricity as a sort of structural
change rather than here's a whole bunch
more stuff we can do with computers. I
think that's sort of the the question
and there's a funny sort of disconnect I
think in in looking at debates about
this within tech because you know I
watched this this this this one of the
um open AI live streams a couple of
weeks ago [snorts]
and they spend the first 20 minutes
talking about how they're going to have
like human level PhD level AI
researchers like next year and then the
second half of the stream is oh and
here's our API stack that's going to
enable hundreds and thousands of new
software developers just like Windows
and in fact literally quote Bill Gates
and you think well those can't kind both
be true. Like either I've got a thing
which is a PhD level AI researcher which
by implication is like a PhD level CPA.

>> Yeah.
>> Or I've got a new piece of software that
does my taxes for me and well which is
it? Either this thing is going to be
like human level and some and that's a
very very challenging problematic
complicated statement or this is going

to let us make more software that can do
more things the software couldn't be.
And I think there's a real like
schizophrenia
in conversations around this because
like scaling laws and it's going to
scale all the way and meanwhile I'm
going here look how good it is at
writing code and again like well is it
writing code or do we not need software
anymore because in principle if the
models keep scaling nobody's going to
write code anymore. You'll just say to
the model like hey can you do this thing
for me?
>> Yeah. Is it a little bit of a hedge or
like a sequencing thing or?
>> Well, it's a it's some of it's a
sequencing thing, but you know, in
principle, if you think this stuff is
going to keep scaling, like why are you
investing in a software company?
>> Yeah.
>> Like, you know, we'll just have this
like god in a box that can do
everything. And and and I think this is
but this is the the kind of the funny
kind of challenge and this is I think
the fundamental way that this is
different from previous platform shifts
is that with the internet or with mobile
or being deemed with mobile main frame
is like you didn't know what was going
to happen in the next couple of years
you didn't know that what Amazon would
become and you didn't know how Netscape
was going to work out and you didn't
know what next year's iPhone was going
to be and 10 years ago when we cared
about that you kind of knew the physical
limits like you knew in 1995 you knew
that Telos were not going to give
everybody gigabit fiber next
and you knew that the iPhone wasn't
going to like have a year's battery life
and unroll and have a projector and fly
or whatever. But we don't know the
physical limits of this technology
because we don't really have a good
theoretical understanding of why it
works so well. Nor indeed do we have a
good theoretical understanding of what
human intelligence is and so we don't
know how much better it can get. So you
can do you could do a chart and you
could say well you know this is the road
map for modems and this is the road map
for DSL and this is how fast DSL will be
and then you can make some guesses about
how quickly Telos will deploy DSL and
then you can say well clearly we're not
going to be able to replace broadcast TV
with streaming in 1998

but we don't have an equivalent way of
modeling this stuff to know what is the

fundamental capability of it going to
look like in 3 years um which gets you
to these kind of slightly vibes-based
forecasting where no one really knows.
So, you know, Jeff In says, "Well, I
feel like" and Demis says, "Well, I feel
like," but no one knows.
>> And then Karpathi goes into our podcast
and says, "I feel like, you know, it's a
decade out."
>> Yeah, I know. Well, I saw this this meme
of um of what's
but like he says like the answer will
reveal itself. And somebody like me'd

I'm going to say photoshopped, but of
course he wouldn't have been
photoshopped. turned him into a Buddhist
monk wearing like an orange like an
orange outfit like the future will
reveal itself.  Well, but this
is the problem. We don't know. We don't
have a way of modeling this.
>> Yeah. And so let's connect this to sort

of the you know the upfront investment
that some of these companies are making.
Um because we don't know you know is
there a risk of overinvestment leading
to some you know potential uh you know
bubble-l like mechanics or h how do you
think about that that question? Well,
deterministically, very new, very, very
big, very, very exciting world's
changing things tend to lead to bubbles.
>> Yeah.
>> And you I don't think anybody would
dispute that you can see some bubbly
behavior now. And you know, you can
argue about what kind of bubble, but
again, like that doesn't have very much
predictive power. And you know, one of

the the features of bubbles is that when
everything's going, you know, everything
goes up all at once and everyone looks
like a genius and everyone leverages and
cross leverages and does circular
revenue and that's great until it's not.
Um, and then you get a kind of a ratchet
effect as it goes back down again. Um,
so yeah, if we're not in a bubble now,
we will be. I remember Mark Andre
saying, you know, 1997 was not a bubble.
98 was not a bubble. 99 was a bubble.
Um, are we in 97 now or 98 or 99? I you

know if we could predict that you know
we'd live in a parallel universe. Um I
think you know to the there's I suppose

maybe kind of two more specific more
more tangible answers to this. The first
of them is we don't really know what the

compute requirements of this stuff are
going to be and forecasting that except

like more and forecasting that feels a
lot like trying to forecast like
bandwidth use in the late '9s. Imagine

if you were trying to do the algebra on
that. You say, "Well, this many users,
you know, how much bandwidth does a web
page use? How will that change? How will
that change as bandwidth gets faster?
What happens with video? What kind of
video? What bandwidth of what what bit
rate of video? How long do people watch
a video? How much video?" And then you'd

like you you could build the spreadsheet
and it would tell you what bit rate
would what global bandwidth consumption
would be in 10 years. And then you could
try and use that to back calculate how
many routters is this going going to
sell. And you could get a number but it
wouldn't be the number you know there'd
be a you know hundfold range of possible
outcomes from that and you could you
know you could make the same point about
algebra of of consumption now.

So you know right now we have a bunch of
rational actors saying well this stuff
is transformative and a huge threat and

we can't keep up with demand for it now
and as far as we know the demand is
going to keep going up. And you know,
we've had a variety of quotes from all
of the hyperscalers basically saying the
downside of not investing is bigger than
the downside of overinvesting. Um

that's um or that kind of thing always

works well until it doesn't.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and I saw slightly strange quote from
Mark Zuckerberg saying, "Well, if it
turns out that we've overinvested, we
can just re resell the capacity." And I
thought, let me just like stop you
there, Mark, cuz if it turns out that
you can't use your capacity, everybody
else going to have loads of spare
capacity as well.
>> Yeah.
>> All these people now who are desperate
for more capacity, if it turns out we
can get the same results for hundreds of
the compute.
>> That will be true for everyone else too,
not just you.
>> Yeah. [snorts] So yeah, you know, in a

investment cycle like this, you tend to
get overinvestment, but then after that,

there's very limited predictions you can
make about what's going to happen. I
think the the more useful
kind of way to look at this is to think
well
you've got these kind of transformative
capabilities
that are already increasing the value of

your existing products if you're you're
Google or Meta or Amazon and you're
going to be able to use them to build a
bunch more stuff
and
why would you want to let somebody else
do that rather than you doing it as long
as you're able to keep funding and
selling what you're building.
>> Yeah.
>> And it may well turn out that you know
we have an evolution of models in the
next year. That means you can get the
same result for 100 of the compute that

you're using today. Bearing in mind that
it's already going down like depend pick
your numbers 20 30 40 times a year.
>> Yeah.
>> But then the usage is going up. So
you're in this very, as I said, it's
like trying to predict bandwidth
consumption in the late 90s, early
2000s. You know, you can you can throw
all the parameters out, but it doesn't
get you to something useful. You just
kind of need to step back and say,
"Yeah, but is this internet thing any
good?"
>> Well, yeah, cuz I'm curious if the
bottlenecks are if you see them as more
on the supply side or the demand side,
you know, more technical constraints or
is just is AI any good? Are are there
enough use cases to to justify the the
the type of SP what are what are you
seeing and and what are you predicting?
>> So maybe two answers to this question.
## Generative AI in Practice (19:33–29:27)
The first of them is I think we've had
this sort of a a bifocation of what all
the questions are. So there are now very
very detailed conversations about chips
and then very very detailed
conversations about data centers and
about funding for data centers and then
about what does a a new enterprise SAS

company built on AI? what margins will
it have and how much money does it need
to raise and so there are venture
capital conversations and so there are
many different conversations within
which like I don't know anything about
chips you know I can spell ultraviolet
but like I don't know what like an
ultraviolet process is um it's like it's
more it's more more violets I don't know
um
and so you've got this you know it's
like the the Milton Friedman line no one
knows how to build a pencil you've got
the you know we've got this you it's
turned into I think a second answer
might B, I think there's two kinds of AI

deployment, generative AI deployment.
One of them is there are places where

it's very easy and obvious right now to
see what you would do with this, which
is basically software development,
marketing,
um, point solutions for many very

boring, very specific enterprise use
cases. And also basically people like us

which are people who have kind of very
open, very free form, very flexible jobs
with many different things and people
who are always looking for ways to
optimize that.
>> Yeah.
>> And so you get people in Silicon Valley
who are like, you know, I spend all my
diet time in DBT. I don't use Google
anymore. You know, I've replaced my CRM
with this. Um, and you kind of and then

you obviously people who write if you're
writing codes, this works really well.
Well, if you're in marketing, you know,
all these stories of big companies
where, you know, they're making 300
assets where they would have made 30.
Um, and then Accenture and Bane and
McKenzie and Infosys and so on sitting
and solving very specific problems
inside big companies. Then there's a
whole bunch of other people who look at
it and they're like,
it's okay.
and you go and look at the usage data
and you see okay chat GPT has got 8 or

900 million weekly active users 5% of

people are paying
and then you go and look at all the
survey data and you know it's very
fragmented and inconsistent but it all
sort of points to like something like 10
or 15% of people in the developed world
are using this every day another 20 or
30% of people are using it every week
and if you're the kind of person who is
using this for hours every day. Ask
yourself why five times more people look

at it, get it, know what it is, have an
account, know how to use it, and can't
think of anything to do with it this
week or next week.

>> Why is that?
>> Yeah.
>> Is it because it early? And it's not
like a young people thing either,
incidentally. And so, is that just
because it's early? Is it because of the

error rates? Is it because you have to
map it against what you do every day?
And one of the the analogy I always used
to use which isn't in the current
presentation I've been used in previous
presentations is imagine you're an
accountant and you see software
spreadsheets for the first time. This
thing can do a month of work in 10
minutes almost literally.
>> Yeah.
You want to change you want to
recalculate that DCF that 10ear DCF with
a different discount rate. I've done it
before you finished asking me to. And
that would have been like a day or two
days or three days of work to
recalculate all those numbers. Great.
Now, imagine you're a lawyer and you see
it. And you think, well, that's great.

My accountant should see it. Maybe I'll
use it next week when I'm making a table
of my billable hours, but that's not
what I do all day. And Excel is doesn't

use do things that a lawyer can do every
day. And I think those there's this
other class of person that's like I'm
not sure what to do with this. And some
of that is habit. Some of that is like
realizing no instead of doing it that
way I could do it this way. But that's
also what products are. Like every
entrepreneur who comes into a 16Z when I
was there from 2014 to 2019 and I'm sure
now like you could look at any company
that comes in and say that's basically a
database. That's basically a CRM.

That's basically Oracle or Google Docs

except that they've realized there's
this problem or this workflow inside
this industry and worked out how to use
a database or a CRM or basically
concepts from 5, 10, 20 years ago and
solve that problem for people in that
industry and go in and sell it to them
and work out how they can get it to use
it. And so this is why, you know, you

look look at data on this that you
depending on how you count it, the
typical big company today has 4 to 500
SAS apps in the US. 4 to 500 SAS

applications and they're all basically
doing something you could do in Oracle
or Excel or email.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's the other side. I'm

monologuing, I'm afraid, but like this
is the other side of what is what do you
do with these things? Do you just go to
the bot and ask it to do a thing for
you? Or does an enterprise salesperson

come to your boss and sell you a thing
that means now you press a button and it
analyzes this process that you needed

that you never realized you were even
doing.
>> Yeah.
>> And I feel like that's I mean that's why

there are AI software companies,
>> right?
>> Really? Isn't that what they're doing?
They're unbundling chat GBT just as the
enterprise software company of 10 years
ago was unbundling Oracle or Google or
Excel. Do you have the view that you
know what Excel did for for for
accountants um you know we're sort of AI

is now doing for for coders um and
developers but hasn't quite figured out
that sort of you know daily critical
workflow for for other job positions and
so it's unclear for people who aren't
developers you know why I should be
using this for many many hours a day or

>> I think there's a lot of people who
don't have tasks that work very well
with this.
>> Yeah. And then there's a lot of people
who need it to be wrapped in a product
and a workflow and tooling and UX and
someone to come and say, "Hey, have you
realized you could do it with this?"
>> [snorts]
>> Um I had this conversation with um in
the summer with with with with Balagi
who's another a former A6Z person and he

was making this point about validation
that can you because these things still
get stuff wrong and people in the valley
often kind of handwave this away but you
know there are questions that have
specific answers where it needs to be
the right answer or one of a limited set
of right answers. Can you validate that
mechanistically?
Um, if not, is it efficient to validate
it with people? So, you know, with the
marketing use case, it's a lot more
efficient to get a machine to make you
200 pictures and then have a person look
at them and pick 10 that are good than
to have um people make 10 good images or
100 you even if you're going to make 500
images and pick a 100 that are good.
That's a lot more efficient than having
a person make 100 images. Um but on the
other hand, if you're doing something
like data entry and this I wrote
something about this about um about open
launch deep research open launch deep
research their whole marketing case is
it go goes off and collects data about
the mobile market. I used to be a mobile
analyst. The numbers are all wrong.
Their use case of look how useful this
is. Their numbers are wrong. And in some

cases they're wrong because they've
literally transcribed the number
incorrectly from the source. In other
cases, it's wrong because they've used a
source that they shouldn't have used.
But like if I'd asked an intern to do it
for me, then an intern would probably
have picked that. And to my the point
about, you know, verification, if you're
going to do data entry, if I'm going to
ask a machine to copy 200 numbers out of
200 PDFs, and then I'm going to have to
check all 200 of those numbers, I might
as well just do it myself.
>> Yeah. So you've got like a whole

swirling matrix of how do you map this

against existing problems? But the other
side of it is how do you map this
against new things that you couldn't
have done before?
And this comes back to my my point about
platform chips because you know you know
I see people looking at chbt or looking
at generative AI and saying well this is
this is useless because it makes
mistakes and I think that's kind of like
looking at like an Apple 2 in the late
'7s and saying could you use these to
run banks to which your answer is no but

that's kind of the wrong question
>> right
>> like could you build video edit
professional video editing inside
Netscape no but that's the wrong

question right
>> and later yeah 20 years data you can but
that meanwhile it does a whole bunch of
other stuff and the same with mobile
like can you can you use mobile to
replace you know your you know your five
screen professional programming rig no
therefore it can't replace PCs well
[snorts] guess what 5 billion people
have got a smartphone and seven or 800
million people have got a consumer PC so
it kind of did but did a different thing
and the point of this is like the new
thing this is you know the disruption
framing you mentioned earlier the new
thing is generally not very good or
terrible at the stuff that was important
to the old thing but it does something
else
>> right And a lot of the question is okay

it may not be very good at doing there's

a class of old task that generative AI
is good at. There's also lot many more
old tasks that generative AI is maybe
not very good at. But then there's a
whole bunch of other things that you
would never have done before that
generative is really really good at

and then how do you find those or think
of those? And how much of that is the
user thinking of it faced with a general
purpose chatbot? How much of that is the
entrepreneur saying, "Hey, I've just
realized that there's this thing that I
can do that you couldn't do before and
here you are. I've given you a product
with a button that will do it for you,
>> right?
>> And it's why there are software
companies,
## New Behaviors and Market Opportunities (29:27–31:29)
>> right? And and on on mobile, you know,
some of the new use cases, you know,
we're you know, getting in strangers
cars, you know, we mentioned lift an
Uber or sort of, you know, dating people
you met via an app or um sort of um you

know, lending your spare bedroom out um
you know, etc. And and those were net
new companies that that that you know,
were built around those behaviors. And I
think for AI there's still questions of
you know what are those net new
behaviors we're starting to see some in
terms of you know people engaging and
talking with you know chat bots instead
of humans or or um or in addition um and

then there's a question of hey are these
done by the uh model providers that that
currently exist or are these done by you
know net new companies both on you know
sort of enterprise and consumer.
>> Well this is always a question is how
far up the stack does the new thing go?
Um, and you know, I I was talking about
this with another former former A6Z
person who pointed out that like in the
the the mid '90s, um, people kind of
argued that, well, you know, the
operating system does all of it and the
Windows apps are basically just kind of
thin Win332 rappers.
>> Yeah. And you know, office is basically
just you know a thin wind32 wrapper like
all the important stuff is being done by
the OS whether it's you know the
document management and printing and
storage and display which all stuff that
used to be done by apps like in on DOSs
the apps had to do printing the apps had
to manage a display we moved to Windows
like 90% of the stuff that the app used
to do is now being done by Windows
>> and so office is just like a thin wind32
wrapper and all the hard stuff has been
being done by the OS and it turns out
well that was again it's like frameworks
are useful but that's not maybe not a
useful way of thinking about what's
going on and [snorts] the same thing now
like how much does this need single

dedicated understanding of how that
market it works or what that market is
and what you would do with that. Um I
mean I remember when we were at A16Z
there was an investment in a company
called Everaw which is cloud um legal

discovery in the cloud.
>> Yeah.
>> And so machine learning happens and so
now they can do translation. Are they
worried that lawyers are going to say
well we don't need you guys anymore.
we're just going to go and get a
translate app and a sentiment analysis
app from AWS. Like no, that's not how
## Understanding Law Firms' Needs (31:29–32:05)
law firms work. Law firms want to buy a
thing that sells want to buy legal
discovery software management. You know,
they don't want to, you know, go and
write their own by do API calls. I mean,
very, very big law firms might, but you
know, typical law firm isn't going to do
that. People buy solutions, they don't
buy technologies. And the same thing
here, like how far up the stack do these
models go?
um how much can you turn things into

um a widget? How much can you turn
things into an LM request? And how much

know does it turn out that you need that
dedicated UI? The funny thing is you can
## The Role of User Interfaces (32:05–33:40)
see this around Google because Google
had this whole idea that everything
would just be a Google query and Google
would work out what the query was and
guess what you know now you want this
Google flights is not a Google query.
you know they you a certain point and
and one of the one of the interesting
things about this and I think it's
interesting to think about what a guey
is doing that some of what a guey is
doing and the obvious thing that a gooey
is doing is that it enables office to
have 500 application 500 features and
you can find them all at least it's you
don't have to memorize keyboard commands
you can now have effectively infinite
features and you can just keep adding
menus and dialog boxes and eventually
you you run out of screen space for
dialog boxes but like you can have
hundreds of features
without people needing to memorize
keyboard commands. [snorts] But the
other side of it is you're in that
dialogue box or you're in that screen in
that workflow in Workday or Salesforce
or whatever the enterprise software is,
whatever any software or or or the
airline website or or Airbnb or whatever
it is. And there aren't 600 buttons on
the screen. There's seven buttons on the
screen because a bunch of people at that
company have sat down and has thought,
what is it that the user should be asked
here? What questions should we give
them? what choices should there be at
this point in the flow? Um, and that

reflects a lot of institutional
knowledge and a lot of learning and a
lot of testing and a lot of really
careful thought about how this should
work. And then you give somebody a raw
prompt and you just say, "Okay, you just

tell the thing how to do the thing and
you're like, but you've kind of got to
shut your eyes, screw your eyes up and
think from first principles. How does
this all of this work?" It's kind of I
## Machine Learning and Interns (33:40–35:26)
always used to talk about machine
learning as giving you infinite interns.
So, you know, imagine you've got a task
and you've got an intern and the intern

doesn't know what venture capital is.

>> How helpful are they going to and like
[clears throat] they and they don't know
that companies publish quarterly reports

and that we've got a Bloomberg account
that lets us look up multiples and that

then you should probably use um
pitchbook for this data and rather than

using Google. This is my point about
deep research like no you should use
this source and not that source. Um,

do you want to have to work that out
from scratch or do you want a bunch of
people who know a lot about this stuff
to have spent 5 years working out what
the choices should be on the screen for
you to click on it? I mean, it's the old
user interface saying the computer
should never ask you a question that you
should have to work out that it should
know by itself. You go to a blank raw

chatbot screen, it's asking you
literally everything. It's not just
asking you one question. It's asking you
absolutely everything about what is it
is that you want and how you're going to
work out what how to do it.
>> The and so you know you're mentioning
chat you right about how chatbt isn't
sort of a product as much as chatbot is
disguised as a as a product. I I am
curious you know when we sort of look
back at this sort of the you know
platform shift do you think that there

will be another sort of iPhone sort
ofesque or excelesque product that kind
of defines the the the feature the sort
of platform shift in a way that chat GPT
won't or or or is it sort of that the
world has to catch up to how to use chat
GPT or or something like chat
## The Evolution of Tech Products (35:26–39:43)
>> so both of these both of these can be
true because there was a lot of like it
took time to realize how you would use
Google Maps and what you could do with
Google and how you could use Instagram
and all of these products have evolved a
huge amount over time. So some of it is
like you grow towards realizing what you
could do with this like you realize
that's just a Google query now. You
realize that you could just do it like
that and you realize I spent you know
hours doing this and I just realized oh
I could actually just make a pivot
table.
>> Yeah. Um the other side of it is

then but you're still then expecting
people to work it out themselves from
first principles and you know it's kind

of useful to have somebody really 100 a
thousand 10,000 really clever people
sitting and trying to work out what
those things are and then showing it to
you as a as a product. I think another
side to this is like you know there were
always these precursors
so like there were lots of other things
before Instagram.
>> Yeah. You know, YouTube didn't start as
YouTube. It started as video dating, I
think. Um, there were lots of of
attempts to do online dating that all
kind of worked until Tinder kind of
pulled the whole thing inside out. And
so, there were always lots of things,
what's the phrase local maxima? In fact,
this is where we were, particularly with
the iPhone, um, before cuz I was working

in mobile for the previous decade. Um,

it didn't feel like we were waiting for
a thing. It felt like it was kind of
working like every year the networks got
faster and the phones got better and it
got a little bit better every year and
we had apps and we had app stores and we
had 3G and we had cameras and stuff
seemed to be you know every year was a
bit better and then the iPhone arrives
and it just you know just you know below

the chart kind of you know you've got
this line doing this and then there's a
line that does that although remember
also the iPhone took like two years
before it worked because you know the
price was wrong and the feature set was
wrong and the distribution model didn't
quite work. [snorts] Um and so yeah, you

you know, you can think your you know,
you can think everything's going well
and then something comes along and you
realize no, oh no, no, no, that's which
is the same for Google, you know, like
search was a thing before Google. It
just wasn't very good. Um so there were
lots of there was lots of social stuff
before Facebook and you know that was
the thing that that catalyzed it. So,
you know, I just think deterministically
this whole thing is so early that it
feels like of course there are going to
be, you know, dozens, hundreds of new
things. Otherwise, H&Z should just kind
of shut down and give the money back to
the LPS cuz the the foundation models

will just do the whole thing. And like I
don't think you're going to do that. At
least I hope not.
>> No, no, no. If we have any regrets from
the last few years, it's it's it's not
going bigger. I think we didn't fully
appreciate how much specialization there
would be across uh sort of you know
whether it's voice or image generation
or or take any sort of subsector that
there would be um you know net new
companies created that would be better
than the than the the the model
providers that that there would be even
multiple model providers that that or
that in every category. Um you know one
one thing we've always in the web two
era we always bet on the category winner
right and and the category winner would
take mo most of the market but these
markets are so big um and the the the
there's so much expertise and
specialization that in that there one

there can be winners in in every
category it's not just sort of the the
model providers take everything but that
even in every category including the
model providers there can be multiple
winners in increasing you know
specialization and and the the markets
are just big enough to to contain
multiple winners.
>> I think that's right. And I think you
know the categories themselves aren't
clear, right?
>> And you know many you know things you
think this is a category and it turns
out no it was actually that whole other
thing and the categories kind of get
unbundled and bundled and recombined in
different ways. I mean, I remember I was
a student in 1995
and um there I think I had like four or
five different web browsers on my PC,
web servers on my PC cuz I mean Tim
Berners Le's original web browser had a
web editor in it because he thought this
was kind of like a network drive and it
was a sharing system and didn't realize
not not really a publishing system. So
you would have your web pages on your PC
and you'd use leave your PC turned on
and that would be how your colleagues
would look at your word documents
or your web pages. And so again, like we
just don't know how and and I just kind
of keep coming back to this point. I
feel like most of the questions we're
asking at the moment are probably the
wrong question. And picking up on on a
strand within what you just said,
## The Competitive Landscape of AI (39:43–43:17)
though, the interesting one of the
things I'm sort of thinking about a lot
is looking at looking at OpenAI. Um
because, you know, I'm I'm I'm sort of
fascinated by disconnections and we've
got this interesting disconnect now,
which is that, you know, if you look at
the benchmark scores, so you've got
these general purpose benchmarks where
the models are basically all the same
and if you're Yes. If you're spending
hours a day in them, then you've got
this opinion about, oh, I like Claude's
tone of voice more than I like GBT and I
like GBT 5.1 more than GBT 4.9 or
whatever the hell it's called. If you're
using this once a week, you really don't
notice this stuff. And the benchmark
scores are all roughly the same. And but
the usage isn't. It's basically the only
consu Claude has basically no consumer
usage even though on the benchmark score
it's the same. and then it's chat GBT
and then halfway down the chart it's um
Meta and Google and the funny thing is

you know that you read all the AI
newsletters again then like Meta's lost
they're out of the game they're dead
Mark Zuckerberg is spending a billion
dollars a researcher to get back in the
game but from the consumer side well
it's it's distribution
and the interesting thing here is that

you've got what I'm kind of circling
around is if the model for a casual

consumer user certainly is a commodity

and there's no network effects or winner
takes all effects yet. There may those
may emerge but we don't have them yet.
And things like memory aren't network
effects as stickiness but they can be
copied. Um

how is it that you compete? Do you just
compete on being the recognized brand
and adding more features and services
and capabilities and people just don't
switch away? Which is kind of what
happened with Chrome for example.
There's not a network effect for Chrome,
but it and it's not actually any better
much. Maybe it's a bit better than
Safari, but you know, you use Chrome
because you use Chrome.
Or
is it that you get left behind on

distribution
or network effects that emerge somewhere

else
and meanwhile you don't have your own
infrastructure. So I suppose what I what
I'm getting at is like you've got these
8 or 900 million weekly active users,
but you don't have but that feels very
fragile because all you've really got is
the power of the default and the brand.
You don't have a network effect. You
don't really have feature lock in. You
don't have a broader ecosystem.
You also don't have your own
infrastructure. So you don't control
your cost base. You don't have a cost
advantage. [snorts]
You get a bill every month from Satcha.
Um,
so you've kind of got to scramble as
fast as you can in both of those
directions to on the one side build
product and build stuff that on top of
the model, which is our earlier
conversation. Is it just the model?
Yeah.
>> Now, you've got to build stuff on top of
the model in every direction. It's a
browser. It's a social video app. It's
an app platform. It's this. It's that.
It's like, you know, the meme of the guy
with the map with all the strings on it,
you know. Um it's all of these things.
We're going to build all of them
yesterday. And then in parallel it's
infrastructure like and you know we we

do we've got to deal with OpenAI sorry
deal with with Nvidia with with with
Broadcom with AMD with Nvidia with
Oracle and with petro dollars. Um

because you're kind of scrambling to get
from
this amazing technical breakthrough and
these 800 900 million wows to something

that has like really sticky defensible

sustainable business value and product
value.
>> Yeah. And and so as you're evaluating
## The Future of AI Models (43:17–45:27)
the the competitive landscape among the
the hyperscalers, what are the the
questions that you're ask that you think
are going to be most important in
determining um you know who who's going
to gain you know durable competitive
advantages or or how this competitive is
going to competition is going to play
out. Well, this kind of comes back to
your point about sustaining advantage
and we talked about Google like if we
think about the shift to particularly
shift to mobile for meta this turned out
to be transformative like it made the
products way more useful.
>> Yeah.
>> Um for Google it turned out mobile
search is just search

>> and maps changed probably and YouTube
changed a bit but basically for Google
search Google search is search and the
web web search is just mean means more
people doing more search more more of
the time. Yeah.
>> Um, and
the default view now would seem to be,

well, Gemini is as good as anybody else.
Next week, like the new model, I haven't
looked at the benchmarks for GPT 5.1,
which is out today. Is it better than
Gemini? Probably. Will it still be
better next month? No.

So, that's a given. Like, you've got a
Frontier model. Fine. What does that
cost? It costs you, pick a number, $250
billion a year, $100 billion a year.
What's this? This is our earlier
conversation about capex. Okay. So,
Google can pay that because they've got
the money. They've got they've got the
cash rate from everything else. And so,
you do that and your existing products
get you optimize search. You optimize
your ad business. You build, you know,
you build new experiences. Maybe you
invent the new the iPhone of AI. Maybe
there is no iPhone of AI. Maybe someone
else does it and you do an Android and
just copy it. Um,
so fine, it's the new mobile. We'll just

carry on. Search is search. AI is AI.
We'll do the new thing. We'll make it a
feature. We'll just carry on doing it.
Um, for meta, it feels like there are
bigger questions on what this means for
search. Um, or what it means for content
and social and experience and
recommendation, which makes it all that
more imperative that they have their own
models just as it is for Google. Um, for

Amazon. Okay. Well, on the one side,
## Impact on Various Industries (45:27–46:49)
it's commodity infra and we'll sell it
as commodity infra. And on the other
side, and maybe can maybe step maybe

step back. If you're not a hyperscaler,
if you're a web publisher, a marketer, a
brand, an advertiser, a media company,

you could make a list of questions, but
like you don't even know what the
questions are right now.
>> What is this? What happens if I ask a
chatbot a thing instead of asking
Google? Even if it's Google from from
Google's point of view, well, I'll ask
Google's chatbot. It's fine. But as a
marketer, what does that mean? What
happens if I ask for a recipe and the
LLM just gives me the answer? What does
that mean if my business is having
recipes?
>> Yeah.
>> Do you have a kind of split between, and
this is also an Amazon question, how
does a purchasing decision happen? How
does this decision to buy a thing that I
didn't know existed before happen? What
happens if I wave my phone at my living
room and say, "What should I buy? Where
does that take me?" In ways that it
wouldn't have taken me in the past. So
there's a lot of questions further
downstream and that goes upstream to
Meta and to some extent for Google. It's
a much bigger question in the long term
for Amazon. Do do LLM mean that Amazon

can finally do really good at scale
recommendation and discovery and
suggestion in ways that it couldn't
really do in the past um because of this
kind of pure commodity retailing model
that it has. Um, Apple Apple's sort of
## Apple's Unique Position (46:49–50:08)
off on one side. You know,
interestingly, they produced this
incredibly compelling vision of what
Siri should be two years ago. It
[snorts] just turned out that they
couldn't make it. Interestingly, nobody
else could have made it either. You go
back and watch the Siri demo that they
gave and you think, okay, so we've got
multimodal instantaneous ondevice tool
using agentic multiplatform e-commerce

in real time with no prompt injection
problems and zero error rates. Well,
that sounds good.
I  mean, has anyone got that
working? Like, no. Open eye open Google
and Open AI don't have that working. I
Google I don't think Google or OpenAI
could deliver the Siri demo that Apple
gave two years ago. I mean, they could
probably do the demo, but they couldn't
like consistently reliably make it work.
I mean, that that demo that product
isn't in Android today. Um and Apple I

mean Apple to me has the most kind of
intellectually interesting question
which is um

so I saw Craig Craig Federigi make this
point which is like we don't have our
own chatbot fine we also don't have
YouTube or Uber

what what explain why that is different
which is a harder question to answer
than it sounds like um and of course the
answer is if this actually fundamentally
changed the nature of computing then
it's a problem if it's just a service
that you use like Google then that's not
a problem. Um which is kind of the point
about about you know where does Siri go.
But the interesting counter example here
would be to think about what happened to
Microsoft in the 2000s which is the
entire dev environment gets away from
them and no one builds Windows apps
after like 2001 or something but you
need to use the internet. To use the
internet you need a PC and what PC are
you going to buy? Well like Apple's like
not really a player at that time and
just getting back into the game. Linux
is obviously not an option for any
normal person. Um, so you buy Windows
PC. So basically Microsoft loses the
platform war and sells an order of
magnitude more PCs like well not selling
them but order an order of magnitude
more Windows PCs as a result of this
thing that Microsoft lost. [snorts] Um,
and then it takes until mobile that like
then they lose the device as well as a
development development environment. So
here's this kind of question is if all
the new stuff is built on AI and I'm
accessing an app that I download from
the app store, to what extent is this a

problem for Apple?

And what would have to you would need a
much more fundamental shift in what it
was that was happening for that to be a
problem for Apple. And even if you take
like the you know not the like the full
like the rapture arrives and we all just
kind of go and live sleep in pods like
the guys in up. Um not up. Um yes what

is it? The one with the robot that's
capturing the trash. Which one is that?
>> Wally.
>> Wall-ally. Wally. Yeah. You know the
guys in the pods in that movie. Maybe
we'll be the people. Maybe we'll be like
that. In which case fine. Um, but like
there's a sort of a midc case which is
like the whole nature of software
changes and there are no apps anymore
and you just go and ask the LLM a thing.
Fine. What is the device on which you
ask the LLM a thing? Well, it's probably
going to have a nice big color screen
and it's probably going to have like a
one day battery life. Probably needs a
microphone. Probably a good camera.

Kind of sounds like an iPhone.
>> Yeah.
Am I going to buy the one that's a tenth
of the price and just use the LLM on it?

No, because I'll still want the good
camera and this good screen and the good
## Strategic Questions for Tech Giants (50:08–58:44)
battery life. So, it's not there's a

bunch of kind of interesting strategic
questions when you start poking away.
Well, what does this mean for Amazon?
Those [snorts] are completely different
questions to what does it mean for
Google or what does it mean for Apple?
What does it mean to Facebook or what
does it mean to Salesforce? What does it
mean to you know Uber? And then right

back to what we were saying at the
beginning of this conversation you know
what does this mean for Uber?
Well their efficients get operations get
X% more efficient and now the for
detection works and you know okay maybe
they're autonomous cars different
conversation but presume no autonomous
cars. That's a whole other conversation.
Otherwise as Uber what does this change?
Well
not a huge amount. I want to sort of
zoom out a little bit. This help framing
the um
>> so you've been doing these presentations
for a while now. You, you know, you
bumped them up to two times um because
there's so much is changing. Um and and
one of the things you do in each
presentation is is you're famous for
asking, you know, really great questions
and chronicling what what are the
important questions to to be asking. I'm
I'm curious as you reflect, you know,
maybe post uh you know, CHGBT in 2022 or

GBT3 rather. um the questions you were
asking then and you reflect on to now uh
to what extent uh do we have some
direction on some of those questions or
to what extent are they the same
questions or or new and and and
different questions or what is sort of
your you know if I woke up on a in a
coma after reading your you know your
original presentation let's say you the
one after GPT uh 3 launch came out um

and then seeing this one now what were
the sort of most surprising things or
things that we we we learned that
updated those questions.
>> So I think we have a lot of new

questions this year.
So I feel like you know you could make a
list of as it might be half a dozen
questions in spring of 23

like open source China Nvidia

does scaling continue
um what happens to images um does how

long does open AI's lead remain and
those questions didn't really change in
23 and 24 and most of those questions
are kind of still there like the Nvidia
question hasn't really changed you know
the answer on ch the answer on you know
will how models will there be? The
answer is okay, there's going to be
anybody who can spend a couple of
hundred can spend a couple of billion
dollars can have a frontier model. That
was pretty obvious in early 23. Um it

took a while for everyone to understand
that. And big models and small models,
will we have small models running on
devices? No, because the small models
the capabilities keep moving too fast
for the small models to shrink the small
model onto the device. But those
questions kind of didn't change for two
two and a half years. I think we now
have I think a bunch of more product

strategy questions as you see real
consumer adoption and open AI and Google
building stuff in different directions,
Amazon going in different directions,
Apple trying and obviously failing and
then then trying again to do stuff.
There's some sense of like there is
something more going on in the industry
than just well let's just build another
model and spend more money.
>> Yeah,
>> there's more questions and more
decisions. Now there's also more
questions outside of tech in certainly

on like the retail media side of um how

do you start thinking about

what you would do with this? And again,
you know, classic framing in my deck is
like step one is you make it a feature
and you absorb it and you do the obvious
stuff. Step two is you do new stuff.
Step three is maybe someone will come
and pull the whole industry inside out
and completely redefine the question.
And so you could kind of do like an
imagine if here of like step one is um

you know you're you're a manager at a
Walmart in the Bay Area or DC or like

whatever it is. Step one is find me that
metric. Step two is build me a
dashboard. Step three is it's Black

Friday and I'm running managing a
Walmart outside of DC. What should I be

worried about?
like and that might be the wrong one but
it's like you know step one for Amazon
is you bought light bulbs so here's so
you bought bubble wrap so here's some
packing tape but what Amazon should
actually be doing is saying hm say this
person is moving home we'll show them a
home insurance ad which is something
that Amazon's correlation systems
wouldn't get because they wouldn't have
that in their purchasing data
and we're still very much at the like

we're still starting to we're still on
the step one of that but thinking much
more. What would the step two, step
three be? What would new revenue be for
this other than just like simple dumb
automation?
What would new things that we would
build with this be? Um, where would this
actually like might I might might
actually kind of redefine or change what
the market might look like? Um, and

that's obviously a big question for
anyone in content business.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, what does it mean if I can
just go and ask an LLM this question?

What kinds of content were predicated on
Google rooting that question to you? And
what kind of questions what kind of
content isn't really that question? Like
do I want a Bologn recipe or do I want

to hear Stanley Tucci talking about
cooking in Italy? Like do I just want

the do I want that skew or do I want to

work out which product I should buy?
Which is Amazon is great at getting you
the skew. terrible at telling you what
ski you want. Um, do I just want the

slide deck or do I want to spend a week
talking to a bunch of partners from Bane
about how I could think about doing
this? Do I just want money or do I want

to work with A16Z's
um, you know, operating groups?
>> Like what is it that I'm doing here? And

I think the the LLM is starting thing is

starting to crystallize that question in
lots of different ways. Yeah,
>> like what am I actually trying to do
here? Do I just want a thing that a
computer can now answer for me or do I
want something else that isn't? Because
the LMS can do a bunch of stuff that
computers couldn't do before,
>> right?
>> Is that thing that the computer couldn't
do before my business?
>> Yeah.
>> Or am I actually doing something else?
>> We're we're about to figure out what is
the in a much more granular way what
what is the true job to be done for for
for many many of these uh
>> Yeah. And you know going back to the
internet there was you know the sort of
observation about newspapers is that
newspapers looked on the internet and
they talked about you know expertise and
curation and journalism and everything
else and didn't really say well we're a
light manufacturing company and a local
distribution and trucking company.
>> Yeah.
>> And that was the bit that was the
problem and until the internet arrived
like that wasn't a conversation you
thought about and then the internet
suddenly makes that clear and suddenly
creates an unbundling that didn't exist
before. And so there will be those kinds
of like you didn't realize you were that
before until an LLM comes along and
points to someone comes along with an
LLM and says I can use this to do this
thing that you didn't really realize was
the basis of your defensibility or the
basis of your profitability. I mean it's
like the you know the the the joke about
you know US health insurance that like
the basis of US health insurance
profitability is making it really really
boring and difficult and timeconuming.
That's where the profits come from.
Maybe it isn't. I don't I don't know
that industry, but for the sake of
argument, say that's that's your
defensibility. Well, an LLM removes
boring, time-consuming, mind-numbing
tasks.
>> Yeah.
>> So, what industries are protected by
having that? And they didn't realize
that. And these, you know, it's like you

could have asked these questions about
the internet in the mid '90s or about
mobile a decade later. And generally,

you'd have half of the questions you'd
have asked would have been the wrong
questions in hindsight. I mean, I
remember as a as a baby analyst in 2000,
everyone kept saying, "What's the killer
use case for 3G?
What's a good use case for 3G?" And it
turned out that having the internet in
your pocket everywhere was the use case
for 3G.
>> But that wasn't the question that people
were asking. And I'm sure that will be
the thing now
is there's so much that we will that
will happen and get built where you go
and you realize, oh,
that's how you would do this. you can
turn it into that.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm sure you've had this experience
seeing entrepreneurs. You you know, you
get every now and then they come in and
they pitch the thing. You're like, "Oh,

okay. You can turn it into that. It
didn't I didn't realize it was that."
>> Yeah. No, 100%. My my last question to
## Reflecting on AI's Potential (58:44–62:07)
get you out of here is um if if we're
talking two or three years from now or
you you're doing a presentation, you
say, "Oh, this is actually bigger than
the internet or may maybe this is like
like computing." Um what would need to
be true? What what would need to happen?
What what would uh what would evolve our
thinking?
>> I mean I I kind of you know sort of come

back to my point about you know the Jews
and Christians like the Messiah came
nothing happened. Um,

we forget I mean there's maybe two two
ways very brief ways to think about
this. One of them is I think we forget
how enormous the iPhone was and how
enormous the internet was. And you can
still find people in tech who claim that
smartphones aren't a big deal.
And this was the basis of people
complaining about me like this idiot. He
thinks like generative AI is big as
those silly phone things. Like
come on. I think another answer would be

like
I don't want to get into the argument
about you know what is the grace rating
capability and benchmarks and and all
you know you see lots of 5hour long
podcasts of people talking about this
stuff but the stuff we have now is not a

replacement for an actual person

outside of some very narrow and very
tightly constrained guard rails which is
why you know Demis's point that it's
absurd to say that we have PhD level
capabilities now. Um

what we would have to be seeing
something that would really shift our
perception of the capability of this
stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> So that it's actually a person as

opposed to it can kind of do these
people like things really well sometimes

but not other times. And it's a, you
know, it's a very tough conceptual
kind of thing to think about because,
you know, I'm I'm deliberate. I'm I'm
conscious I'm not giving you a
falsifiable answer. But I'm not sure
what a falsifiable answer would be to
that. When would you know whether this
was AGI? You know, it's the Larry Tesla
line. AI is whatever doesn't work yet.
As people, as soon as people say it
works, people say, "Well, that's just
not AI. That's just software."
It's a, you know, it's a it's an and it

becomes like a kind of a slightly drunk
philosoph philosophy grad student kind
of conversation as much as it is a
technology conversation. Like what would
it have you ever considered, Eric, that
>> maybe we're not either.

>> That's a thought. It's I I all I can say

to give a tangible answer to this
question is what we have right now isn't

that. Will it grow to that? We don't

know. You may believe it will. I can't
tell you that you're wrong. We'll just
have to find out.
>> I think that's a good place to to to
wrap. The the presentation is AI use the
world. We we'll link to it. It's
fantastic. Benedict, thanks so much for
coming on the podcast to discuss it.
>> Sure. Thanks a lot. Heat. Heat.