## Introduction (0:00–1:15)
You don't want to stimulate the
sympathetic nervous system so much for
so often. It can probably shorten your
life. There's a whole category of what
are called growth hormone secrets which
are very popular. People hear erection,
fat loss, energy, tan, like, oh great.
This isn't the kind of thing you do to
like go on vacation. You got to be real
careful with these things.
>> Nearly one in seven Americans is taking
a GLP-1 drug. 20% have tried them. What

do you think the future looks like?
>> In theory, you could eradicate obesity.
People can lose up to a third of their
body weight. Melanotan, which makes
people tan from the inside, raises
energy and libido dramatically, fat loss
dramatically. BPC-157, body protection
compound. It's not legal, but it's not
necessarily enforced. They list them as
for research purposes only, not for
human use. I mean, who's doing research
on these peptides at home? Anytime
you're stimulating cell growth, it could
start going ary and then get a tumor or
something like that. If that's within
your margins of risk, and that's up to
you.
>> I want to talk about what's happened
over the last 5 years. Slowly through
the 80s, through the 90s, and then
the early 2000s, everyone wanted
to know what they could take to improve
their immune system and their health.
There's a very interesting drug I think
is going to become far more popular
soon, which is
## The Health Awakening, Explained (1:15–7:02)
>> Dr. Heberman, welcome to the A16Z show.
>> Thank you. Delighted to be here.
>> I want to talk about what's happened
over the last 5 years. like since you
launched your podcast, there's been an
extreme increase in consumer interest

and focus on their own health. Like as
an investor, we used to kind of think
people were only willing to spend on
what we'd like call sex or vanity drugs
like Propecia, Viagra, and that has
totally changed in the last 5 years, and

people are really interested in their
health. I'm curious what you think the
major drivers of that have been and what
your role has been in it.
>> So I think the major driver was there
were a few breakthrough supplements

that changed the way that people think
about healthcare and decided they needed

to be more self-directed in their
healthcare. Return to that in a second.
I think the other thing is that the the
health and fitness and industry collided

with mainstream medicine and just
self-care in the following way. Um when

I was growing up, the only people that
lifted weights were bodybuilders,
football players, and um people going
off to the military. I was told if you
lift weights, the muscle will turn to
fat if you stop. That everyone in gyms
is on steroids. I think what happened is
slowly through the 80s, through the 90s,
and then the early 2000s, the world
started accepting, oh, there there are
modes of fitness that allow me to eat

healthily and and take care of myself.
And yes, there's some extremes there,
but there was that it was actually quite
compatible with a with a normal healthy
life. So, what happened during the
pandemic was everyone wanted to know,
this was before and after the vaccines,
wanted to know what they could take to
improve their immune system and their
health. And the first thing that sort of
broke through was vitamin D.
>> Mhm.
>> Maybe because it can be increased by
sunlight and everyone gets some exposure
to sunlight. Doctors weren't saying
don't take it. The studies on it were
kind of mixed, but they were like, okay,
you know, take everyone start having
some vitamin D around.
Then, you know, the melatonin craze had

already kind of come and gone. Um, but
that that's a hormone. And then as time
went on and people started getting more
interested in physical fitness, not just
jogging or doing cardio, but as
resistance training came in,
>> it inevitably brought with it an
interest in protein needs. So, are you
going to take supplements that increase
your daily protein? You know, we could
argue about whether or not you need more
or less protein. I don't necessarily
think everyone needs one gram per pound
of body weight. Some people feel kind of
poisoned, like overwhelmed when they eat
that much. I think you have to sense for
yourself what you want and what you
need.

>> If I'm going to work out then, you know,
uh caffeine before that seems to help.
And then gradually now the creatine
craze, it's funny. Creatine was
something that was popular in gyms and
it when I was like 16 years old, 17
years old and then oh there all these
cognitive benefits, etc. So it came in
with the fitness.
>> Mhm.
>> Vitamin D came in with COVID. Um and

then
with COVID pe people were very

actively debating whether or not you
could trust the government to give you
what you needed to make you healthy. And
I think whether you were provaccine,
vaccine skeptical, or antivax, what
became very clear is everyone realized
some bell went off.
We are all responsible for our own
health.
>> Totally. I think co reminded people of
their own mortality
>> and they realized just because like they
go to a doctor for an annual physical
does not mean they're healthy or
protected or safe.
>> A lot of the mental health issues that
we saw during the lockdowns were
disruption in circadian biology. I know
people were indoors more. There was more
drinking. There was a bunch of other
issues. But I'll just say there's a
really beautiful study with more more
than 80,000 subjects out of the UK that
shows and this is a recent study that
shows that the brighter people's days
are and the darker their nights, the
healthier they are mentally. And this is
especially true for people with OCD,
anxiety, u mania, schizophrenia, major

depression. I mean basically every
psychiatric challenge is made worse by
dim days and bright nights. And so what
we saw during co
was people were just drifting in a
circadian
sense. It it was as if we had put people
into a cave and done the cave experiment
and then there was co right and then
there's all the vaccine stuff which you
know frankly isn't my domain but it it

was so important to me to give people
tools to be able to control their
circadian biology
um momentary anxiety with things like
long exhale breathing which just simply
uh reduces heart rate. We know through
something called respiratory sinus
arrhythmia involves the vagus nerve. You
know the vagus is is sending a bunch of
sensory information about the body to
the brain. But then a percentage of the
vagus is descending its motor. It
controls the heart rate. So when you
exhale
deliberately you slow your heart rate
down. So this is the you don't need to
do breath work. You just if you want to
calm down you you do a long exhale. And
so these little simple things for which
there's mechanistic science to support
them. that was really what we started

putting out into the world. So I think
that's what happened and then you know
there we were you know in my I was
literally in a closet with my bulldog
and my producer and a microphone and
just like talking out to the world and
things just so people became really
strong advocates for themselves. They're
like oh I need to go figure out how

how to take care of myself.
## MAHA's Role in the Health Movement (7:02–13:05)
>> What do you make of kind of Maha's role
in this broader health awakening? What
do you think the effects will be
>> on our health?
>> Well, I very deliberately
not joined a maja panel to maintain the

flexibility that I want to say what I
believe. Um, a good example would be

I think that some of the things they're
doing are directionally right trying to

food supply um get people embracing
healthy behaviors or the these are very
much like hub huberman lab things right

>> at the same time I for instance think

that the mRNA vaccines for cancer are a

transformative
incredible able life-saving technology
>> and a lot of funding has been cut.
>> Yeah, I think that well it's
interesting. So um the the funding for

um mRNA vaccines for respiratory
illnesses has been cut. I was told and I
don't know if this is true that the
funding for mRNA vaccines for cancers
was not cut but there was some very
tricky messaging around that at that
time. So much so that you know because
I'd gone on Bill Maher and I said it's
foolish to cut this funding for the the
cancer research but um I got a call from

Washington and said we didn't cut the
the money for that we cut the money for
the other thing and I said okay so it's
like it's but the messaging has been
deliberately broad on both sides.
>> So um
>> the challenge has been that because we
now let's just call it duck a duck.
We've got right-wing media and we've got
leftwing media and then we've got a few
people in the middle like Bill Maher who
are kind of like you know just calling
shots.
>> I you went on Bill Maher. It was a
really good episode.
>> Yeah. So thank you. Um but for the most

part that the way that clicks and ad

revenue etc is is working for these news
outlets is is
don't say anything positive about the
other side
>> even if there's something that they're
do that's favorable and really paint

with a broad brush. And both sides are
really guilty of that. The left has been
um not supportive of the the moves that

I think are directionally correct which
are improving the food supply, getting
people more active, etc. because their
criticism is um that's rearranging deck
chairs on the Titanic. That's their
their criticism. My stance is

anything that gets people moving in the
direction of their own health.
uh doing things that are proactive for
their own health, circadian health,
reducing anxiety, improving sleep,
eating cleaner food, more movement is

fantastic. Is it the only thing I'd like
to see done? No. Um but it certainly is
important. And so I'll be supportive of
the things I think are are good and I'm
going to criticize the the things that I
I think are are not good. And I'm just
going to continue to do that. It means I
have fewer friends and more enemies. I'm
kind of used to that by now. um
>> your personality on the internet.
>> I often get get referred to as a as a
influencer or a health podcaster. They
seem to have forgotten the the my
science training. But I but I get it. I
understand why I now after 5 years I

really understand
how media works.
>> Yeah.
>> In part because podcast channels have
become bigger than a lot of the at least
in the health domain than the more
traditional uh houses. So, I think um

I've been called a Maha podcaster. I
don't know how they got to that because
I I don't ever recall. Uh
>> you also predate Maha.
>> Yeah. Yeah, they took it from me. No,
I'm kidding. The uh the  um
Yeah, thank you. Um the

I did make a comment about the food
guidelines. I said that I thought it was
directionally right, but that I would
have liked to see more uh vegetables and
fiber, some, you know, low sugar
fermented foods. And it's so interesting
to see how that would get attacked. If I

see something like that that I said
getting attacked, then I think, wow,
like they must be so poorly paid or just

so desperate to write something for
whatever 500 bucks or a,000 bucks to
make rent that like that to spend that
to spend time on that. I I do think that
there's been a real um just like a a

real drop in standards of what we
consider news.
and and that makes me sad, frankly. It's
kind of it saddens me because it
cheapens the entire health space. And
so, it's very easy to point at how, you
know, health influencers and biohackers
have have contaminated the space. But I
think I actually think that traditional
media is is more to blame because are we
really arguing about whether or not the
food guidelines are are perfect? They
they were cast as, oh, you know, now
they're promoting a lot of meat.
>> No, that's not what it was. If you
looked, you act if you actually read it,
the servings of grains and fruits and
vegetables were at least as high as what
they were recommending for meat. So,
it's it's just silly. It's just silly.
It's it's like red shirts. It's like red
shirts, blue shirts kind of um like
playground.
>> Totally. Partisanship plays and it gets
clicked.
>> Yeah. So, I'm I'm enjoying now. I'm in
this place where I love that I don't
belong to any camp.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I feel very free. Um, I've been asked
to write op-eds for the New York Times,
um, about the mRNA vaccine thing, and I
said, "Listen, I'd be happy to do it,
except they didn't. I was told, I don't
know if it's true, but I was told that
they didn't cut the funding for cancer."
So, that makes it a tough oped to write.
At the same time, I I've been asked to
give my input to folks at Maha and
certainly NIH. I've worked very hard
behind the scenes to try and ensure that
funding for SC for basic research is not
cut. And it looks like, I'm not going to
take credit for this at all, but looks
like there might be a 2% increase.
There's bipartisan support to maintain
funding for NIH um research, basic
research. So, you know, I you can't put
me in a camp. Y
>> and I'm happy about that.
## GLP-1: Nearly One in Seven Americans (13:05–18:37)
>> Let's talk about peptides. Yeah.
>> Um nearly one in seven Americans is
taking a GLP-1 drug. 20% have tried
them. These numbers continue to rise.
You've talked about um retride um a GLP

and Lily's pipeline. What do you think
the future looks like as it regards to
kind of GLPs? And then let's talk about
other peptides after that.
>> Yeah. Um I'm hoping this analogy works.

You know, when I was growing up, if you
could afford a nice car, you had a nice
car. Otherwise, there were a lot of kind
of junky cars on the road.
>> Um and then this thing called credit
came along where everyone could have a
nice car or lease a nice car. So, you
don't really see that like rundown cars
in a, you know, you do some places, but
you really don't. Um,

I I see the GLPs the same way. It used
to be that being really fit at a certain
age um reflected the fact you do a lot
of exercise and I think that the GLPs
make it such that people can um be a
healthy weight without having to
exercise. We know however that people
should resistance train in particular to
offset the muscle loss. But Red at True
Tide went through phase three at Lily
people can lose up to a third of their
body weight in a pretty short amount of
time with some degree of muscle sparing.
So this is also called GLP3. It also
seems to bypass some of the side effects
that some of the previous GLPs um
created. Although no drug is perfect, of
course. But the real reason is
interesting to me is that already people
have realized that they can get much
lower cost
um and or take lower doses of GLP drugs

by going through compoundingies.
Lily is working very hard to make sure
that compoundingies do not sell reddit
tide.
Compoundingarmacies and gray market
sources already sell redu tide. Many
people are already taking it. It's not
legal, but it's not necessarily
enforced. And I'm not necessarily uh
suggesting people do, but I think it's
going to change society where in theory

you could eradicate obesity. in theory.

Um,
>> five years from now, what what percent
of Americans do you think are on JLPs?

>> Well, I like to think that there's still
some people who because they've

exercised good habits up until now don't
need them. I I don't know why I like
that, but I I suppose if you can get
away without having to take a drug and
get the same result, that's better. Um,

I'm guessing that more than half,

especially
um, people who come from families or
communities where there's a lot of
obesity are are going to be taking them
probably taking them at lower dosages
than are prescribed. Um, and I I don't

think that you can control the
compoundingies in gray market mostly
because, and I could be wrong here, so I
want to be careful, but I'm not aware of
of a major adverse event. You know, it's
a little bit the same way that steroids
were discussed in the 80s and 90s, but
people were dying, going into rages.
They were coming up with ALS, you know,
they're having a lot of problems. I'm
not aware of anyone dying from taking
BPC57.
So, there's a lot more room for
experimentation. I'm not suggesting
people do that, but the margins for
error seem to be greater.
>> Yeah. I mean, my understanding is it's
not the like
the compounded drugs are probably
generally safe, but it's the fear of
contamination or a menitis outbreak or
whatever it's happened in the past um
with compoundingies being just less
regulated. Yeah.
>> Than traditional drug manufacturing.
>> Yeah. I think it's really interesting
too because as I watch this space, this
peptide space emerge, which has mainly
been been around the GLPS, right? and
BPC-157 body protection compound which

may or may not accelerate healing in
animal models. It's very clear that it
can improve cartilage growth, nerve
regrowth as well as uh vascular growth
which is a little bit worrisome if you
have a tumor. You don't want to
vascularize the tumor. No one has the
right control experiment in themselves
because they'll say, "Oh, I injected my
shoulder and it I healed so much more
quickly, but it goes systemically." So,
you can't like compare the two
shoulders. And so, but no one wants to
be in the control group and the people

are just assuming it's BPC. They're
taking it. I mean, I think we probably
would have heard of an adverse event by
now, but who knows, maybe some something
will pop up. I think that um when it

comes to the GLPS in particular, there
was a lot of debate for a while. The
exercise fitness community were saying,
"Oh, you know, you don't want to take a
drug. You just need to eat right and
exercise." I disagree. I think that some
people have accumulated so much atapost
tissue that it's modified their
metabolism and even perhaps even brain
circuitry and appetite that it's really
really helps them. Um and obviously
behaviors and these drugs are going to
be the best combination. Um or just the
behaviors if you can get away with them.
I've never taken a GLP so I can't talk
about the experience of it. I have tried
various peptides. I've tried BPC. I
don't know if it helped me or not. I
didn't have an injury. I didn't notice
that I recovered anymore quickly uh from
exercise. I've tried pinealin as a sleep

uh peptide. It gave me 3 hours a night
of REM sleep, which was pretty awesome.
Um very little human data. So now I just
>> Are you continuing that?
>> No, I just take AGZ. And that's the
truth. I
>> So you want more data? I'm a little
scared about taking something that in
animal models has been shown to both
improve the function of but maybe also
the proliferation of pinealytes which
produce melatonin or that they and other
cells in the in the pineal. Um

because anytime you're stimulating cell
growth you could it could start going
ary and then get a tumor or something
like that.
## The Non-GLP Peptide Craze (18:37–25:16)
>> Maybe you can just kind of speak more
broadly about the nongp peptide craze.

There's been a lot of kind of black
market activity around Chinese peptides.

>> Um
>> I love how that term has come about.
>> There's look smacking like people are
What is a peptide? What do you
recommend? What should people avoid?
>> Sure. Um short course, a peptide is is
just a short chain of amino acids make
up a protein. Insulin is a peptide. Um
all the things we're talking about up
until now are peptides. So the phrase
peptides has been kind of co-opted. um

to mean a certain sort of a click of

peptides just like the word steroids in

people's minds they think bodybuilders
but you know a stero estrogen is a
steroid hormone people are always
shocked to hear that you know so if you
take estrogen you're on steroids okay
but we know what people are saying when
they say on steroids so they're
androgenic steroids they're estrogenic
steroids there's corticosterone okay
just in the same way there are peptides

that are to reduce hunger and appetite
the GL LPS. Uh, Reddit True Tide being
the newest generation, one soon to be
released through Lily, um, but already

out on the market from gray market
sources are these sources that are sold
all over the internet that are American
or Canadian or whatever. And they list
them as uh for research purposes only,
not for human use. But they're selling
them knowing that people are taking
them. I mean, who's doing research on
these peptides at home, right? this is
not your unless you're my lab down the
road or someone else's lab like of
course people are taking these um they
tend to be the gray market sources for
research purposes only not for human use
tend to be 99% purity which means
they've been cleaned of most things
except I do worry a bit about repeated

injection of a substance that contains

1% say lip polysaccharide which can
cause inflammation so maybe not in one
injection but maybe repeatedly over time
as well as other contaminants
black market sources and when you hear
Chinese peptides are companies online we
don't know that it's all coming from
China by the way they sort of get get
hit the hardest in this but people refer
to Chinese and black market peptides as
people are going online buying reatride
and you have no idea if it's reatride in

contrast to the gray market sources
where they might not be the cleanest but

you know we they give you a data sheet
that says this was tested And if it says

reatrite, if it says BPC57, that's
what's actually in the vial and only
that. Okay, so that's an important
distinction. Compounding pharmacies have
been compounding all sorts of things,
selling drugs more cheaply than um drug

companies. Um they are controversial for
that reason. We could talk about that.
But other peptides that are interesting,
excuse me, [clears throat]
BBC57 for tissue repair, reducing
inflammation seems to have very very

high LD50. No one's really discovered
it. And people have been injecting
enormously high um amounts of this. I've

not heard of an adverse event. I don't
recommend doing that, however, because
you don't want to vascularize a little
tumor you might have on your liver or in
your brain. Mhm.
>> Um but maybe for short-term use to treat

an injury if that's within your margins
of risk,
you know, I mean that's up to you. Um
ideally you'd get it from a compounding
pharmacy if you can or from one of these
gray market uh sources before you would

go to a black market source. Injectable
injecting locally seems to be better
than taking it systemically.
taking the oral forms. It's unclear how
much of that BPC57
gets into your bodily tissues. Pinealin
as I mentioned for for sleep is become
very popular. There's a whole category
of what are called growth hormone
secrets which are very popular. Uh
tesamellin, epimellin, curelin, mk677.

These all stimulate the pituitary to
release growth hormone but they
themselves are not growth hormone.
They will increase the amount of deep
sleep that you get at night. Typically,
you'll take these 30 minutes before
sleep, ideally not having eaten anything
in the previous few hours,

will increase growth hormone and IGF-1.
Some of those things I just mentioned
are FDA approved. So, serellin for

instance, I I forget the exact
indication, but um to increase height

for instance, or uh tissue repair after
um after surgery, some you know,
increasing growth hormone can be
beneficial. Some people will just take
growth hormone but growth hormone is
very expensive. So sematotrope omnitrope

um so that's what these peptides are
very commonly used those have been
researched so assuming the sourcing is
clean we have a lot of human data on the
ones I just described as opposed to
pinealin and bpc7 where you have
basically no human data. So there are
human data on things like melanotan
which makes people tan from the inside
raises energy and libido dramatically
fat loss dramatically.
>> Did we put that in the looks maxing
category?
>> I don't know I or energy maxing or
something. Yeah it's kind of
interesting. I mean I mean um there

there's a lot about so melanitan

um and some similar peptides have been
have been FDA approved for um
hyposexuality in women. I think the vile

is the drug for women. Men take it too.
I have to say those drugs melanitan is

very risky. Some of the the skin color
changes um the kind of oranging of the
skin can be permanent. So you have to
this isn't the kind of thing you do to
like go on vacation, right?
This is it might have more permanent
effect,
>> right? And and there's the risk for men
of preipism which you know the the last
erection you may ever have. It might
last eight hours, but that might be the
last one you ever It can cause damage to
the nerves and penile tissues. So
people, you know, people hear like
erection, fat loss, energy, tan, like,
oh great, you know, and you think, uh,
you got to be real careful with these
things if they they do get abused. Um,
but I just mentioned the these things
and and and the melanoten whole pathway
is super interesting because it raises
dopamine. Dopamine and pigmentation are
linked through an enzyme called
tyrroscenase. Not to get technical here,
but some animals are um are uh look like

they're albino in the winter, except
they have dark eyes, like an arctic fox.
And then the summer sunlight comes, hits
this pathway, increases dopamine,
pigments the fur,
>> and they breed.
>> So that there's a relationship between
sunlight, dopamine, ficundity, and these
kinds of things. It's pretty
interesting, right? the um so um
## Rogue Experiments and Low-Dose GLP (25:16–31:40)
people are taking these things and
they're getting them either through
black market which I don't recommend
gray market which is risky or

compounding pharmacy so now we're sort
of ascending levels of stringency and
then you get to pharma sells it you can
buy smearllin from one of the drug
companies you can buy reatride soon from
lily the cost tends to be you know three

to 10 times higher the dosage recommend
commendations tend to be higher. People
have figured out doing their own kind of
rogue experiments that you can get by
taking much lower doses of things. So, I
think one of the more interesting uses
of GLPS that I'm hearing about mainly
from people getting it from compounding
pharmacy and gray market sources is that
you can get by with taking much lower
doses. Some people are using it for
reducing alcohol craving,
>> for reducing just cognitive noise more

generally, which I think is pretty
interesting. Um, and this is probably a
good opportunity to just mention things
for focus since we were going to talk
about that. You know, if if you ever

have in your copious amounts of spare
time, which I'm sure you never have, um,
because no one seems to have it anymore,
there's [clears throat] some pretty
interesting conversations that have
taken place on X about drugs for focus

because all the
all the the other hackers um, like to
focus and program um, and work. And so

we all have heard of modafanil used to
treat excess excessive daytime
sleepiness. It may have a slight
cognitive enhancing effect, but it's
mostly a focusing thing. You can it
increases energy when you have poor
sleep.
>> Mhm.
>> Um it was designed to treat narcolepsy
and other things.
>> Better than aderall.
>> Different than aderall because aderall
is more of an amphetamine type
stimulant. Um very interesting paper
came out recently from WashU showing
that aderall it wasn't really aderall
specifically but rolin and other
stimulants seem to improve focus about

as well as a good night's sleep
>> but a lot of people aren't getting the
good night's sleep they need
>> because of it also
>> right exactly and it's not increasing
focus per se it's increasing alertness
which allows you to allocate your focus
this is that as far as I know there are
no drugs drugs to increase focus per se.
Now, the two things are tethered enough.
You know, you need alertness to
alertness gates focus. Um, sleep gates

alertness unless you take a drug like
aderall or modafanil. There's a very
interesting drug I think is going to
become far more popular soon, which is
already FDA approved calledsi, s u n o

si, which is um approved for excessive
daytime sleepiness. Did very well in a
trial for ADHD. And it's a little bit of
a dirtier drug in the sense that it
doesn't just hit the dopamine and
norepinephrine pathways that some of the
other drugs I mentioned do. It also hits
serotonin a little bit. Seems to have a
much gentler arc of alertness and focus.

I confess I've tried it. Um I'm it was a

bit too much and I was like I don't I
think I'm going to stick with caffeine
for now. People will take Wellutrin the
anti the atypical anti-depressant
>> at low dosages to increase epinephrine
dopamine a little bit for focus. I mean
people are doing this all the time.
nicotine. So there's a lot of stimulant
use right now for focus. So I do think
that if there is a peptide that can be
taken safely that can reduce the amount
of noise in the system and allow people

to be uh more focused and allocate their
attention in a more deliberate way
without having to take stimulants. I
think that would be fantastic. I think
there's an excessive amount of stimulant
use and this is coming from somebody who
drinks a lot of caffeine and and frankly
would love to have a drug that could
increase focus but you always pay the
piper somehow either in sleep or in
cardiac challenges. I mean you don't
want to stimulate the sympathetic
nervous system so much for so often. It
can probably shorten your life.
>> What does a proactive approach to health
look like maybe five years from now? And

what technology do you think needs to be
built to enable that? Maybe put another
way, like you, it feels like you've
covered every single health topic on
your podcast.
>> Still going.
>> What do you think you're going to be
covering in kind of 26, 27, 28?
>> Yeah, we need to do autoimmune cancer.
We we've got a bunch of things to go,
but yeah, I I mean, maybe this is a good
opportunity to kind of weave in reading
and writing to biology. So reading, I

mean, people are
>> wearing sleep sensors. This is like
commonly done now, right?
>> Um, but you can't write to the sleep
system yet.
>> If you I think in 5 years we're going to
look back and we're like, can you
believe it? We were like cooling the
room to try and fall asleep. I think
we'll still have cooling mattresses,
>> but like it's going to be so crazy cuz
there should be a way that you could
just put like a a small um like you can

cool the core of the body more
efficiently through the palms and the
soles of the feet. Um there's reasons
for this. The the vascule there actually
lacks capillaries. can pass. You're not
really cooling the blood um directly,
but you're essentially um dumping more
heat. This is a cool technology from
Stanford. I mean, I think someday, not
long from now, you'll go to sleep with a
little little thing in your palm or on
your your feet and your core body
temperature will just drop.
>> Yeah.
>> You wear an eye mask that's moving your
eyes back and forth, and within 6
minutes or less, you'll be asleep.
>> Um when you wake up in the morning,
you'll flip that thing on, it'll give
you a burst of 10,000 lux light, and
then you'll go outside. These are
trivially straightforward technologies

to build, but no one's really building
them right now because we're like, "Oh,
we'll just cool the whole room and
we'll, you know, and I'll, you know,
look at a 10,000 lux, you know, thing
over there while I" It's It's just It's
so easy to move these things to the
body. So, writing to our biology around
sleep is going to be a big one.
>> The read the other forms of reading that
I think are happening now that are soon
going to be writing as well. Well, I'd
love to see not just real- time um
glucose sensing, love to see real-time
cortisol sensing, morning cortisol peak,
getting that. I I mean, I can't
overstate the importance of for
everyone, women, men, premenopausal,
post-menopausal, pregnant, not pregnant,
kids, you want a big morning cortisol
pulse and then you want that to trough
in the late afternoon and stay low. You
get that and you win 90% of the game.

But we don't have real-time cortisol
## Real-Time Cortisol Sensing (31:40–44:39)
measures. people are are working on
these things like right now for our
listeners there are continuous glucose
monitors and they put kind of a little
piece of like dental floss under your
skin that monitors glucose in real time
normally for diabetics but people are
working on kind of multi- biomarker
sensors that could tell cortisol or a
variety of things.
>> Yeah, I think that you know real time
cortisol would be very interesting. Of
course, you'll get little blips of
cortisol as you stress throughout the
day and the real question is can you
bring your cortisol back down
afterwards? These blips and cortisol
aren't a problem if they come back down.
>> Sometimes if that whole curve gets
shifted to the right a bit, there
actually worse cancer outcomes, reduced
longevity. There lot of reasons to want
that cortisol spike really big and then
have it trough into the afternoon. Um,

so that's one that I'd love to see. Um,
and then once you see that, you know, if
at 5 or 6 p.m. your cortisol is riding
high, you know, you'd love to be have a
way that you could dial it down. And you
could do that through conventional
methods like long exhale breathing or
short meditation, maybe eating some
starchy carbohydrates. People forget
that cortisol's main job is to deploy
energy in the body. This is why it gives
you a glucose bump. And there's a reason
why starchy foods we call comfort foods
is that it provides this sort of energy
that allows cortisol to come down. This
is why a lot of people who follow very
low starch diets oftentimes feel really
stressed or at the edge of stress. I
can't sleep well unless I've had enough
starches during the day.
>> Interesting.
>> Now, if I haven't done any exercise or
anything, I don't really need many
starches. But if you're weight training,
you're busy, you're using your mind,
you're moving about, then you know it's
11:00 at night and you're fried and you
fall asleep, and then you're up at 3 in
the morning, I'm willing to bet that had
you had maybe a bowl of rice with
dinner, you might actually sleep a lot
better. People don't talk about this,
especially in the context of ketogenic
diets, which sure, you'll have more
energy, but it can really mess up your
sleep.
>> You heard it here. You can have carbs at
dinner. I love that.
>> Please do it. Please. In fact, if you're
going to have carbohydrates at any time
should be within a couple hours after
resistance training or, you know, maybe
3 4 hours before sleep. Maybe even a
couple hours before sleep. It people who
reduce their carbohydrate intake too
much are you're not going to sleep well.
You're just not. Um not nearly as well
as you could if you had some moderate
carb intake. Um obviously you want to
try not to eat too close to bedtime
>> and so forth. So I think that the the I

do think that the whole peptide thing is

you know the the horse is out of the
stable. I think in 5 years you and I are
going to have a little cocktail. It's
going to be one injection or one pill
and it's going to be a little bit of
pineal in at night combined with
something else. It's going to be in the
morning, something, whatever it is that
you need to um not you specifically of

course, but whatever I need to, you
know, ramp up my dopamineergic system a
little bit to um make sure that I'm
getting enough micronutrients that uh
maybe I'm going to put a little cloth in
there to protect me against Alzheimer's.
I mean, I think all of that stuff is is
going to be common place. The same way
that people are not afraid of vitamin D
or they're taking some creatine or
magnesium. people are taking magnesium
is kind of the next wave of of accepted
supplements I think that feel safe
enough for most not all people but safe
enough. I think um most everyone is

going to be doing that and I think the
cost is going to be low enough that that
statement most everyone is a real
statement.
>> I love the read versus write breakdown.
I think on the read side it feels very
clear where the world is going. Like
chat GBT is already an incredible
doctor, probably better than an average
doctor, an American can get access to.
>> It knows nothing about you today, but we
have these health information exchanges
coming online. You know, function. We're
building something that pulls in, you
know, all of your health records from
EHRs, all of your wearable data, all of

your function, blood test results, your
imaging, and feeds it into this model in

real time where it's going to diagnose
issues with you before you even feel

symptoms. And we saw like the 1.0
version of that in CO when people's
wearables kind of realized they had CO
before they even felt sick.
And then when we have these continuous
glucose monitors that can monitor a
whole lot more like the diagnostics and
read side feels like very kind of clear
where the world is moving. The right is
super interesting. The right side and
that's where I think there are a million
more ways this world could go.
>> Yeah. I mean I I mean I borrow this read
write thing from my you know my life as
a neuroscientist. I mean for many years
we wanted to chart the cell types of the
nervous system. What are the
connections? So you're looking at the
hardware. Then it was let's record
neurons, individual neurons, groups of
neurons, extracellar, intracellular,
calcium imaging, voltage dies. Okay, now

let's do causal experiments. Let's quiet
those cells, increase the activity of
those cells in the context of a
perceptual experiment or a behavioral
experiment in humans ideally, right? But
it was done first, you know, mice, I
mean everything rat, cat, monkey, bat,
but it was, you know, it's got me, you
know, mice and it was non-human primates
and now and now humans. And so I think

when I think about reading and writing
to our physiology, it's like let's
figure out what the normal normal
patterns of activity are and let's have

simple ways to implement what's needed.
Push that cortisol bump a little bit.
Right now it's so crude it's almost
funny. It's like, oh, will ashwagandha
reduce this or reduce cortisol? Yeah,

people take it in the morning. That
makes no sense. You want your cortisol
elevated in the morning. People will
take a little bit in the evening and
yeah, it'll calm them down a bit, but if
they take it for too long, it can start
to have some offtarget effects. So, I
always say you don't want to take high
doses for for too long. You we're
cooling the room. Great. Everyone should
cool the room. I cooled the room in my
hotel yesterday. I love the I love love
love the eight sleep. Yes, they're a
sponsor, but I think it's of my podcast,
but I think it's a phenomenal
technology. So much I miss it when I
travel. But ultimately, we're going to
be cooling the body. Just cool your
core, right? Right. I should travel with
a little thing I can put on my feet and
the socks that'll cool my core so I
sleep and wake me up by, you know, one
way to really improve the amount of REM
sleep you get, not taking anything. Warm
your body in the last warm your sleeping
environment in the last hour before you
wake. REM levels go up. So you want it
cool then really cold then warm. We

shouldn't be relying on external
hardware so much.
>> And I don't and so that's why I think
the sleep mask thing etc. I also think

the real holy grail in all this is the
ability to dial in cognitive states. I

don't think I know I'm going to Matt

McDougall who you know I knew when he
was at Stanford now is at Neurolink he's
phenomenal. Dan Adams I think that group
is terrific. I think our friend Eddie
Chang, uh, chair of neuros surgery at
UCSF, phenomenal. They're they're
reading and writing to the nervous
system, but I do not think in the next
10 years. I'd love to for them to prove
me wrong, but I do not think that your
hippocampus is going to be pulling in
twice as much memory at, you know, twice
the rate or something like that. It's
just not going to happen. We don't even
understand how the hippocampus does that
under normal conditions well enough yet.
But I can imagine putting on a pair of

glasses to sit down and do some work and
your visual field goes and there's some

sort of level of stimulation, external

stimulation that brings your ramps up
your level of focus. You set a timer and
for the next 40 minutes you'll
experience the kind of focus that you've
only had a few times when you had all
conditions right and you'll work for
that 40 minutes and then you'll click
that you're done and then you'll take
those things off and you'll you'll go do
something else. I love that. I try to
myself that's coming. That's coming. And
I I keep pointing to the eyes like the
the sleep mask that moves the eyes to
make you fall asleep. It's most of the
access to the brain and nervous system
is going to be maybe through the Vegas
through some super superficial
stimulation for calming effects or or
other things. Actually, veagal
stimulation mainly causes alertness, but
um maybe you know some non-invasive
technology will get good enough. Right
now, I'm not really seeing it, but it's
coming. But the amount of things that

you can do to modify brain state through
this region, just the eyes, ears, and uh

and the superficial nerves that run
around there is just phenomenal. So I if
I were going to personally invest in any
companies that were doing that sort of
thing, that's the body area and the
sorts of things that I'd be really
focused on.
>> Question on AI. You've rose to
prominence distilling kind of complex
health information and studies into
something that people can understand
easily. this is now something like AI
can do quite well. How do you think
about that? How do you use AI in your
day-to-day life?
>> Well, I use Claude to quiz myself.

Claude is really good at generating
tests for me on knowledge. Um, so that's

where I've been using it the most. Um,

I love the idea that an AI version of me
could potentially deliver a podcast. It
would allow me to do other things. Um,
sort of halfkitting there. Here's what I

know for sure is that there are many

easy ways to generate a list of the 10
most important things to do to get great
sleep. The 10 most important things to
do to uh ensure brain health given what
we know that it's very easy to generate
a list. But given that why why don't

people just do those things? And I think
it's because there's something about the
human brain where the probability that
we take on a protocol or change our
behavior is highly dependent on a of

course the effectiveness of that
behavior as we experience it but also
how we learn the information.
>> When you understand mechanism I think it

gives a higher probability that somebody

is going to implement the advice and it

may even change the way the protocol
works. Now you could say that's all
placebo or belief effect but maybe not
right some of it is also the flexibility
that's provided when you understand
mechanism you understand that if you
can't get sunlight in the morning today
you just double up tomorrow because it's
a summation system it's not it's a
window that yes if you miss for too many
days it becomes problematic but once you
understand how it's summing photons etc
and AI could probably deliver that
information but I don't know that it can

build the build it well enough. Um, but

maybe I'm just telling myself that cuz I
don't like the idea of being replaced by
AI. But I don't know. I mean, I'd
probably build the platform where the AI
version of me was doing it. So, I I
don't have a problem poaching myself.
>> Longevity, escape, veloc velocity. Do
you think that's real or fantasy?
>> I mean, [sighs and gasps]
I think the way that people are defining
longevity now, it's it's got a lot of uh
pretzel twists in it to try and say,
well, I didn't say we were going to live
forever. right to my you know I'm going
to my upload my conscious like if we're
talking about this this physical body
that we currently inhabit um minus any

robotic architecture inserted I think
it's pretty clear that the genetic upper
limit is about 120 and for most of us
it's probably closer to about 105

so taking great care of ourselves um

aiming for 100 I think aim for 100 is my
motto just aim for 100 healthy Um, I

think that's doable. I I'm very excited.

I guess it's a little bit of an edgy
topic, but I'm very excited by Tony
Weiss Cory's work from Stanford. Um, and
he had a company that's now sold,
Alcheist, um, which talked about factors
in young blood and in exercised blood
that can rejuvenate the brain and body.
So, some of these factors that circulate
after exercise are really beneficial.
And yes, there are factors in younger
blood that seem to be beneficial. This
gets people worried about vampires and
stuff, but we're talking about ethical
uh things here. It provided ethically,
gathered and provided ethically, of
course. What I think is really
interesting is that there are some some
proteins that really appear to be
rejuvenating. I I also think

if someone came along tomorrow and
said,"Andrew, why don't we collect your
blood after exercising for the next, you
know, six months and let's just bank
your blood so that if you ever have an
injury, you can get some really healthy
of your own blood." I would do that.
It's kind of primitive from the
standpoint of, you know, AI and all
these things being available, but we
know that infusion, blood infusions are
beneficial. There's been a clinical
trial for this. Yeah,
>> we know that blood infusions of exercise
blood are even more beneficial. We also
know that after a brain injury or a
bodily injury that things that are not

just pro-inflammatory circulate in the
blood that are bad for all organs. So, I

think a very low bar but useful
technology would be to bank a bunch of
my own blood after exercise. And I'm

like, I'm healthier now at 50 than I'm
likely to be at 70. Mhm.
>> I would love my own blood at 70. Just
get an infusion once a week.
>> Totally.
>> You know, I I' I'd do that before I'd
get some like glutathione NAD infusion,
which is you probably fine, but I don't
know that it provides that much.
## The Pet Octopus and AI Communication (44:39–50:51)
>> Last question. You have a pet octopus.
>> I do.
>> That is unusual. Tell us about him or
her.
>> Van Go. Um,
>> Van Go.
>> Van Go. Yeah, it's a starry night
octopus, hence Van Go. And then it got
even more eerie because Van Go lost one

tentacle in the in the fan. So it was
like a um so when my lab was in San

Diego before I moved to Stanford, I
worked on a different sephopod called
cuttlefish, which are like little
underwater monkeys. They're incredibly
intelligent. They're known for being
great camouflagers. There's also this
twist in their uh sociobiology where the

males will um camouflage as females,
infiltrate, and then mate with the
females. Um, so I was studying their

vision. They're very interesting because
they can see in panorama and they're
very placid, but then when they want to
hunt, their eyes transllocate to the
front and they generate depth
perception, stereopsis to to hunt. And I
was very interested in whether or not
they had two visual systems. And uh, I'm
very interested in depth perception and
and prey capture and how that relates to
bodily states. Just to weave this into
what we were talking about earlier. Um,

when your eyes are focused on a single
point, your levels of of arousal and
energy attention go up. When your eyes
are sort of d when your gaze is dilated,
like you're viewing the corners of the
room and the ceiling and the floor, that
tends to make put us into a calmer
state. Some animals only exist in one or
the other. We we are unique that we can
switch back and forth. Some other
animals can, but I was studying that in
cuttlefish. When I moved to my current
home, I converted an art gallery into a
living space. I put a gym. I put a place
to work downstairs where there's no
Wi-Fi. I don't bring my phone down
there. That's where I prepare for
podcasts. I do drawing. I'm doing some
illustrations these days for my book and
a few other things. And then it's like,
oh, I've always loved aquaria. I'm going
to put a freshwater discus tank. And I
put a huge fresh freshwater discus tank.
I was like, you know, I think I need
sephopods again. So, I got an octopus. I
got a starry night octopus. And here's

what I'm trying to do with the octopus.
This has everything to do with AI.

I'm trying to get the octopus to report
to me what it's thinking because I do

think they're very intelligent and we
say, "Oh, they're like aliens. They're
so intelligent." But we get the
camouflage. They're very interactive.
Um, but
an underwater iPad and the appropriate

use of of touchscreen and AI, I'm hoping

will allow this or another octopus to
communicate something about what it's

thinking. Okay, so how would you do
this? Right? So, you can't apply a
typical large language model. So, you
have to do it based on the coloration
patterns on the camouflage patterns. So
it turns out AI can actually learn a lot
by correlating the behaviors of an
octopus with its camouflage patterns.
The problem has always been that you
have to do that in real time as the
animals swimming around and hunting and
doing various things. So the challenge
now is to get it to interact with
stimula that will give enough
information so that this model I don't
know we call it I we don't have someone
more clever than I can come up with
something that's not LLM. I don't know
something else something related to
camouflage patterns could start
revealing that certain camouflage
patterns relate to certain behaviors
which relate to um certain nuance in the
behaviors and then it could start
teaching itself. Um and then the idea

would be that the ai would present

something to Van Go or another octopus.
I've got more on the way that um

would start to influence behavior that
could be not just conversations between
octopi but where maybe I could speak it
would it would uh translate that into

octopus  you call it and then
we could communicate and here's the
reason for doing this okay so there's
this idea that other animals have all
this intelligence normally we measure
that through behavior or through some
you know highly specialized aspect of
their nervous system or body like barn
owls or you know They all do these
fantastic feats or you what you find and

I don't like it for instance when I see
oh this guy taught an octopus how to use
a piano I saw that that's not
interesting actually all that tells you
that tells you more about how hard

humans are willing to work to train a
different organism to do something
pretty rudimentary compared to what
humans can do tells you everything about
humans obsession with teaching other
animals to be more human I'm interested
in what the octopus understands about
the world and can communicate that to me

because I don't know that stuff. I can
learn to play a piano. Why would I want
to teach an octopus to play a piano?
That's
>> fascinating. I think you need a whole
podcast outlining your experience.
>> Yeah. Well, maybe this is what happens
when we run out of topics to put on the
on the HLP, but and I'm probably not
thinking about this as cleanly as I I
could or should, but it was I have to
say just in kind of, you know, wrapping
this, you know, monologue, it

you get to the point doing public facing
health information where you can kind of
feel the saturation point and we need
more technologies and tools and I think
that's great and I really am excited for
what's coming. But the at some point the

conversations become um clear that we

need more right and then you think about
this whole vast landscape of animal
intelligence and
people have placed this thing on the o
on the sephopods like they're really
smart they know I mean they might be
idiots for all we know just dazzling us
with colors I don't think they're idiots
I think that they are accessing um a
certain perceptual landscape and they're
thinking hard about what's there based
on things I've observed and others have
observed, but we really need to figure
out a way to let them tell us what
they're thinking.
>> Amazing. Vander Herman, thank you for
coming on the A16Z show.
>> Thanks for having me here.