## Introduction (0:00–8:36)
We want chat GBT as a first party app.
First party app is a really great way to
get 800 million wows or whatever now.
>> Tenth of the globe, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. 10% of the globe uses it
>> every week. Every week.
>> Yeah. Even within OpenAI, the the
thinking was that there would be like
one model that rose them all. It's like
definitely completely changed. It's
becoming increasingly clear that there
will be room for a bunch of specialized
models. There will likely be a
proliferation of other types of model.
Companies just have giant treasure
troves of data that they are sitting on.
The big unlock that has happened
recently is with the reinforcement
finetuning. With that setup, we're now
letting you actually run RL, which
allows you to leverage your data way
more.

Sherman, thanks very much for joining.
So, we're being joined by Sherman Woo.
Um, it'd be great actually if you
provided the long form of your
background as we get into this, just for
those that that may not know you. I
mean, I I view Sherman as one of the the
top AI thought leaders, so I'm really
looking forward to this.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for having me. I'm
I'm really excited to be be on the
podcast. Um, yeah. Yeah, a little bit
more of my my background. So, uh maybe
we can start from present day and go
backwards. So, I I currently lead um the
engineering team for the for OpenAI's
developer platform. So, the biggest
product in there of course is the the
API. Um
>> is there more for the developer platform
than the API? Um I just kind of assume
there was synonymous.
>> Well, so I I also think about uh other
things that we put into our platform
side. So, like technically our
government work uh is is also like
offering deploying this different areas.
Yeah. Like I've talked about
>> Oh, so you have like a local deployment
like
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, we actually do have a
local deployment Atlas Alamos National
Labs. It's super cool. I went to visit
it. It's like very different than what
I'm used to. Um, but yeah, in a like,
you know, classified supercomput with
with our with our model running there.
That's cool.
>> Um, so there's that. Um, but like mostly
the the API. Um, cuz
>> Did you go to Los Alamos?
>> We did. Yeah, I did go to Los Alamos. It
was great. They showed us around. They
showed us some of the historic sites.
Real history. Um, yeah.
>> I used to work at Livermore, man. So,
I've got like an
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. My first job out of
college. So,
>> Right. Right. Right. You sounded that
next.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we we hope to we
hope to. Um but uh yeah, so I work on
the developer platform. I've been
working on it for around uh 3 years uh
now. So I joined in 2022. Uh was
basically hired to work on the the API
product which at the time was the only
product that that opening I had.
>> Um and I've basically just worked on it
the uh the entire time. Um I've always
been super interested in the developer
side and kind of like the startup story
of this technology. And so it's been
really really cool to kind of see see
this evolve. And so um that's my time in
OpenAI. Before OpenAI um I was at uh
Open Door uh for around 6 years. I was
working on the pricing side. My my
general background before
>> I think it's such a dissonant like you
know
>> pricing at open door to like running API
and
>> it's such a different uh it's been
fascinating actually for me to see the
differences between the companies like
they're run so differently. Um they both
have open in the name so there's some
overlap but like that's bas that's
pretty much it. Um
>> but yeah I was there for around six
years uh working on the pricing team. So
our team basically would run the ML
models. This isn't actually pricing the
assets on Open Door like the inventory.
>> Exactly. So open so yeah, Open Door
would buy and sell homes and their main
project was buying homes directly from
people selling them for with all cash
offers and so my team was responsible
for how much we would pay for them. Uh
and so it was a really fun like ML
challenge. Uh it had a huge operational
element to it as well cuz not everything
was automated obviously
>> but it was a really fascinating
technical challenge and um
>> is there any sense of that on the API
side like like GPU capacity buying or is
it just totally unrelated?
>> Oh on the on the API side um there's is
a small bit of like how we price the the
models but uh I don't think we do
anything as sophisticated as uh uh as

open door. Open door is just like such a
hard problem. It's like such a like
expensive asset. It's like like the the
holding costs are very expensive. You're
like holding on to it for like months at
a time. There's like a variability in
like the holding time.
>> A massive long tail of like potential
things that could
>> long tail. Yes. And like you know you
have the you try to think about it from
a portfolio perspective and like if one
of them just like you're holding on it
for two years it blows everything.
>> Everything like goes negative. So it's
uh it's a very very different different
challenge. Yeah. Yeah. Six years there.
>> Uh lots of up and downs. uh saw a lot of
the booms, saw a lot of the struggles
and then we IPOed uh before I before I
left.
>> Um but yeah, just in general it was a
very great experience. I think uh for me
it was uh it was also just like had such
a very like business operations and like

>> like a very like by the book type of
culture whereas open is like very
different.
>> What's so interesting I was just
thinking about it now is like even for a
company like that like you don't think
about it as a tech company but if there
is a deep technology problem it actually
is the pricing right. It's actually an
ML problem. It's not what it drives.
like the website, it's not the, you
know, it's not the platform, it's like,
it's not the API, it's literally that.
>> Yep. Yep. Yep. And that's what attracted
me to it. I think that's was
interesting.
>> Um, uh, it's also a way like lower
margin business than, uh, OpenAI. Uh,
cuz you're like making a tiny spread on
these homes. Uh, they talk about like
basis points like eating bits for
breakfast and all that. So, um, anyways,
I was at Open uh, Open Doorf around 6
years. Um, and then before that, uh, was
my first job out of college which was at
Kora um, with Adam Dans from group
there. Yeah. So I was working on the
newsfeed. Oh yeah.
>> Uh so worked on newsfeed ranking for a
bit. Worked on the product side.
>> Um but was uh that was actually my first
exposure to like actual ML and industry
and uh learned a lot from uh uh from

from the engineers at core. We basically
hired a lot of the the early like feed
engineers.
>> Was Charlie still there when you were
there?
>> Charlie was not there when I when I
right after that was a really legendary
team, you know. I was still known to be
kind of this super iconic founding team.
>> Yeah. Yeah. the the the early founding
team was really solid. I still think
that even while I was there, I was I I
still like am amazed at the quality of
the talent that we had. Um I think
there's like one company's like 50 to
100 people, but like
>> yeah, like a bunch of the perplexity
team was there. Dennis Dennis was on the
feed team with me. Uh uh uh Johnny Ho,

Jerry Ma,
>> that's right. And then Alexander the
scale now, you know, like was there he

was he was he was there between high
school and college. Um it was an
incredible team. I I don't think I I
think I kind of took it for granted
while I was there. It was a good group.
But um
>> uh and how did you how did you get to
Kora? What did you study in undergrad?
>> Yeah, so before that I was at MIT for
undergrad. I studied computer science.
Um uh did like one of those like
computer science and the master's degree
kind of like crammed it in.
>> Um
>> uh I ended up at CORE because I got an
uh what we call an externship there. So
like uh at MIT uh you actually get
January off. So there's like the fall
semester and then January's off and then
you have uh the spring semester. And so
it's kind of this it's called
independent activities period. So some
people just like take classes, some
people just do nothing,
>> but it's uh some people will do like
month-long internships and some crazy
companies will like offer a month-long
internship to a college student. And it
really is just kind of like a way to get
uh people into
>> Did you come out here from Boston or
Yeah, it was crazy. So um so so so uh

you had to apply. I remember uh yeah

this is like I think 2013 uh January or
something um you had apply and I
remember the core internship was the one
that just paid the most. They paid I
think it was like $8,000 $9,000
and I was like wow that's
like for a month and you're kind of
ramping up like half the time
>> I can eat for a year.
>> Yeah. Yeah. As a college student like
this like great and you get a and yeah
they would they would kind of like fly
out fly you out here and so I did the
interviews and then luckily got an offer
and so yeah I came out for a January. Um

that was right when they moved into
their new Mountain View office and I
basically uh yeah honestly just ramped
up for like 2 weeks and then had like
two weeks of good productivity working
on the feed team.
>> So was that on the was that like userf
facing like userf facing product? Yeah.
>> Yeah. I I distinctly remember my
externship project for those two weeks
was just to like add a couple features
to our feature store
>> and like that would make its way into
the model. Um I was just going to say my
my I remember my mentor there um was is
tutor uh who's now running I think it's
called harmonic labs. Yeah. Crazy team.
Crazy.
>> This is un I mean by the way I think
it's one of the untold stories of
Silicon Valley is like how good that
original team ended is. I mean a lot of
them are still you know there and still
good but like like the diaspora from
Kora is everywhere.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um that's actually how I
ended up at OpenAI too. Kind of like you
know fast forwarding from there cuz I
open kind of kept a quiet profileish.
Uh, but I'd always kind of kept tabs on
them because a bunch of the Corora core
people I knew kind of like ended up
there just kind of like checking in on
on it and they were like, "Yeah,
something crazy is happening here. You
know, you should definitely check it
out." Um, so yeah, I definitely owe a
lot to to Kora. Um, but yeah, part of
the reason why I went there versus other
options as a new grad was the team was
just so incredible and I just felt like
I could learn a ton from them. I didn't
think about everything afterwards. I was
just like, man, if I could just like
absorb some knowledge from this like,
you know, group of people, it' be it'd
be great.
>> Awesome.
## Horizontal vs vertical OpenAI (8:36–12:18)
>> Yeah. So, one place I wanted to start um
is uh something that I find very unique
about um OpenAI uh is it's both a pretty

horizontal company like it's got an API
like I would say we've got this massive
portfolio of companies right and I would
say a good fraction of them use the the

API and then it's also a vertical
company in that you've got full-on apps
right um you know like everybody uses
chat GPT for example and so you know
you're responsible for like the API and
kind of the dev tools side. So maybe
just to begin with like is there an
internal tension between the two like is
that a discussion like you know like

like the API may whatever it may help a

competitor to like the vertical version
or is it not things are just growing so
fast it's not an issue. I would just
love to how you think about that. By the
way, it's very unusual for companies to
have both of that these two things this
early. It's very unusual.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I completely agree. Uh I
think there is there's there's some
amount of tension. I uh I would say it's
I think one thing that really helps here
is uh Sam and Greg just from a like
founder you know perspective have since
day one just been very principled in in
in in the way in which we approach this.
They've always you know have kind of
told us you know we want chatgbt as a
first party app. uh we also want want
the API and then and the nice thing is I
think they're able to do this because uh
at the end of the day it kind of comes
back to the the mission of OpenAI which
is uh to create AI and then to
distribute the benefits as broadly as
possible and so if you interpret this
you want it in as many surfaces as as
you want you and the first party app is
a really great way to get you know I
don't know it's like 800 million uh wows
or whatever now and um uh but
>> 100 million wows
>> uh yeah it's pretty it's actually
mindboggling to think about I don't
think many people listening to this
don't understand how big that is That is
crazy. Yeah,
>> that's going to be like actually
historic for the for the the time it's
taken to get to 800 million.
>> It's historic. It's um also just like
Yeah. the amount of time and just like
how much we've had to scale up
>> like tenth of the globe, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. 10% of the globe uses it
>> every week. Every week.
>> Yeah. And it's growing. And it's
growing. So like at some point, you
know, it'll hit like, you know, it'll go
even higher than that. And so, um so
yeah, obviously the reach there is is
unmatched. But then also just like uh
being able to have a platform where we
can reach even more than just that. Like
one thing we we talk about internally
sometimes is like what does our end user
reach from the API like it's actually
it's like really really it's really
broad. It might might even it's hard
because chat GB is growing so quickly
but like it like at some points it was
definitely larger than than chat GBT and
the fact that we're able to get tap in
all this and and and get the reach that
we want I think is really good.
>> Um but yeah I mean there's definitely
some tension sometimes. I think the um I
think it's come up in a couple places. I
think uh one of them is is on the
product side. So as you mentioned you
know sometimes there are competitors
kind of like building on our on our um
>> platform um who you know might not be
happy if chatbt launches something that
competes with them.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> I mean that you know that's the tale of
the old is the cloud or operating
systems or whatever. So like that's you
know I think it's more like
>> does chatbt worry about the competitor.
Yeah.
>> You know type thing like you know you
enabling a competitor.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I mean uh the interesting
thing is like I would say not
particularly mostly just because we've
been growing so quickly that I get it's
just such a you know force right now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Growth solves so many so
many different things and like and and
the other way we think about is like
everyone's kind of building building
around AGI building towards AGI. Of
course there's going to be some overlap
um here. Um so yeah I mean but but I
would say like at least in my position I
feel more of this tension from the
customer like the API customers
themselves right like oh my gosh you
know you're like are you going to build
this thing that I'm working on? Yeah,
that that story is as old as computer
system. There's never not been a
computer platform that didn't have that
problem. So
>> So, okay. So, I I I kind of go back and
forth on this one. I want to try one out
on you. Um
## Why you can’t “disintermediate” the model (12:18–15:11)
>> which is the the the problem
historically with, you know, offering um

a core services and APIs, you can get
disintermediated, right? And so I can
build on top of it, but then you know
the user doesn't know like whatever I
build on top of the cloud, but I just
remediate from the cloud and then I can
switch to another cloud or whatever.
>> And it occurs to me that that's kind of
hard to do with these models because the
models are so hard to abstract away.
Like they're just they're just unruly,
right? If you try to like have
traditional software drive them, they
just don't kind of manage very well. So
part of me thinks that it's almost like
this
>> like anti-isintermediation
technology that you kind of have to
expose it to the to the user directly.

Does that make sense? And so I'm
wondering if like so even if I think
chat GPT is really just trying to expose
the model to the user, the API is kind
of just trying to expose the model to
the user. So I think there's almost this
argument that's like if the real value
is in the models, it doesn't really
matter how you get it to them cuz it's
going to be very tough for someone's
going to to abstract it away in in in
the classic sense of computer science of
like they don't know that they're using
the model like you always know you're
using GBD5.
>> Yeah. And and the interesting thing is I
think like the entire industry kind of
has slowly changed their mind around
this too. I think like in the beginning
we kind of thought like oh these are all
going to be interchangeable.
>> It's just like software.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. A piece of infra
swap out. Yeah. But I think we're
learning this on the product side with
like, you know, the GBD5 launch and like
40 and like how so many people liked 03
and 40 and and all of that. We're also
>> I felt that I felt that when it changed.
I'm like I'm like you're not
as nice to me. I'm like I like the
validation. So
>> it's actually fun cuz I I really loved
GPD5's personality, but I think it's
like the way I used, you know, chat GPT
was very utilitarian. Like it's like,
you know, mostly for work or just like
information.
>> Yeah, I've definitely come around just,
you know, but like I actually felt a
dissonance when it changed. It's like
it's like like there's this emotional
thing that goes on but it's almost like
it's an anti-
>> you know dissident mediation technology
like you kind of have to show this to
the user.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and then you see a lot
of like you know more successful
products like cursor like do this
directly especially the coding products
where users want more control. Um we've
even seen some like you know like more
general consumer products do this and so
it's definitely been true on the on the
consumer side. Um the interesting thing
is I think it's also been true on the
API side. Uh and that's also something
that I think
>> no exactly no that's exactly what I'm
saying.
The argument could be that I could use
the API
>> to disintermediate you, but like you
don't see that happening because it's so
hard to put a layer of software between
a model and and a person. You almost
have to expose the model.
>> Yes. Yes. And I think um if anything, I
think the models are like
>> almost like diverging in terms of like
their what they're good at and like
their specific use case. And I think
there's going to be more and more of
this. But yeah, basically it's been
surprisingly hard for uh or like the the

retention of people building on our API
is like surprisingly high, especially
when people thought you could just kind
of swap things around. You might have,
you know, like uh even tools that help
you uh swap things around. Uh but yeah,
the the stickiness of the of the of the
model itself has been has been
surprising. And then do you think that
## People build relationships with models (15:11–17:30)
is because of a relationship between the
user and the model or do you think it's
more of a technical thing which is like
my eval work for like open AAI and it's

you know and like the correctness
maintains.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's both. Um, so I
think there's there's definitely an end
user piece here, which is what we've
heard from from some of our customers,
like they just get familiar with with
the model itself. But I also think
there's a technical piece, which is like
the also as a developer, especially with
startups, you're like really going deep
with these models and like really like
iterating on it, trying to get get it
really good within your particular
harness. You're iterating on your
harness itself. You're giving it
different tools here and there. Uh, and
so you really do end up like building a
product around the model. And so there
is a technical piece where you know as
you kind of keep building with a
particular uh uh product like GPD5 um
you're actually like building more
around it so that your product works
uniquely well with that with that model.
>> So so I I use I use cursor and um a lot

just for like a lot of stuff like like
writing blogs and like yeah you know
we're investors and I use it for
sometimes for coding and
>> it's remarkable how many models I use in
cursor. So like literally my go-to model
is GP5. I love GPD5. I think is a
phenomenal like you know and then like I
use like max mode with GBT5 for planning
and then but you know like I mean I like
the tab complete model that's in cursor
and like you know the new model they
just dropped is for like some basic you
know some stuff like yeah the composer
one's good
>> um and so like you know and I think that

like kind of reflects this too cuz it's
like there's a particular model for each
particular use case like I've talked to
a bunch of people who've used the new
composer model and it's just really good
for like fast like first pass like keep

you in flow kind of thing and then you
kind of like bubble out to another model
if you want like you know deeper things.
I literally sit down I literally sit
down GP5 to help me plan something out
and it's really good at that and then
you know like when I'm coding you know
I'm doing like the quick chat thing then
I'll use composer and then if there's
like whatever there's like some crazy
bug or something like that like
>> so you know do you remember like in the
early days of all of this we're like
there's going to be one model and like I
mean like like
>> even like investors like we will never
invest in a model company because like
there will only be one model and it's
going to be AGI but like the reality it
feels like there's this massive
proliferation of models Like you said
before, they're doing many things. And
so maybe two questions, maybe too blunt
or too crass, but the first one is what
## Not one AGI model, but many (17:30–20:10)
does that mean to a for AGI?
And the second is what does that mean
for OpenAI? Like does that mean that
like you end up with a model portfolio?

Do you select a subset? Do you think
this all gets superseded by some god
model in the future? Like how does that
play out? Because it's against what most
people thought. Most people thought this
is all going towards one large model
that does everything.
>> Yeah. I think the the crazy thing about
all this is just like how everyone's
thinking has just changed over time.
Totally. like the I I distinctly
remember this like and and and the crazy
thing is not that long ago. It's just
like three like two or three years ago.
>> I remember like even within OpenAI the
the thinking was that there would be
like one model that rules them all and
it's like why would you I mean like this
kind of goes to the fine tetuning API
product. It's like why would you even
have a fine tuning product? Why would
you even want to like iterate on it? Um
there's going to be this one model that
just subsumes everything and that was
also kind of the that is also like the
most simplistic like view of what the
what the AGI will look like.
>> Um and and yeah, it's like definitely
completely changed since then. I think
one uh and and but then the other thing
to keep in mind is like it might
continue to change like even from where
we are today but it's like becoming
increasingly clear I think that um uh

there will be room for a bunch of
specialized models. There will likely be
a proliferation of other types of
models. I mean you see us do this with
like the codeex model totally uh uh
itself we have like you like GPD4 and
like 40 and like five and and and and
all of this. Um and so I I definitely
think there's there's room for all for
all this. I I I don't think that's bad
for what it's worth. like um if anything
I think you know as we've tried to move
towards AGI things have just been very
unexpected and I think the market just
evolved and the product portfolio
evolves because of that. Um so I don't
think it's a bad thing at all. on what I
do
>> you could easily argue it's very good
for open AI and very good for like the
model companies to like yeah because not
have like you know winner take all
consolidated dynamics right I mean you
just have a healthier ecosystem a lot
more solutions you can provide a lot
yeah you know yeah and as as the
ecosystem grows it generally is helpful
like this is one thing we actually think
about a lot too is is as the general
like AI ecosystem grows like open just
stands to benefit a lot from this and
and um this is also why we've uh like

some of our products we've even started
opening up to other models right like
our ethals uh product now allows you to
bring in other models to all this. We
think it's like any any rising tide
generally helps us here. Um but yeah, I
think as we move into a world where
there will be a bunch more models, this
is why we've kind of invested in our
model customization product with
fine-tuning API with the reinforcement
fine-tuning opening that up as well. Uh
it's also why part of why we open
sourced uh uh GPOSS as well because we
want to be able to you know facilitate
that.
>> I want to super I want to talk about
that in in in just a bit cuz the open
source is actually very interesting and
I I mean actually I thought the open
source model was great. Yeah. Um but
clearly it's something that companies
have to be careful with.
>> But before that I want to talk a little
bit about the fine-tuning um uh API. So

so so I I've noticed that you are moving
## Fine-tuning, RFT, and customer data choices (20:10–24:44)
towards kind of more sophisticated use
of things like you know like fine-tuning
um which you know in a way you could
read that as a bit of a capitulation
that like
you know there is product specific data
and there's product specific use cases
that a general model won't do to your
point. Right. So like as opposed to
proliferation model you do that. Um it
seems like a lot of that data is
actually very very valuable, right? And
so you know to what extent is there like

interest in almost a tit fortat where
you can like expose

you know the ability to get product data
into fine-tuning and then you also
benefit from that data because
>> the uh the the vendors provide it to
you. um versus like this is 100%, you

know, like they keep their own data and
there's kind of no interest in that
>> cuz it feels to me like the next level
of scaling. This is kind of where we're
at. And so
>> just kind of curious how
>> Yeah. So I mean maybe even like taking a
step back the the main reason why we
even invested in a fine-tuning API in
the very beginning is uh one there's
been huge demand from people to be able
to customize the models a bit more. It
kind of goes into like prompt
engineering and also like I think the
industry's changed their mind on that as
well like it's evolved. But the second
thing is exactly what you said which is
the companies just have giant treasure
troves of data that they are sitting on
that they would like to utilize in some
fashion in this AI wave and you can you
know the simple thing is to put it in
like you know some like vector like do
rag with it or something but there's
also you know if they have more
technical team they do want to see how
they can use it to customize the models
>> and uh and so that is actually the main
reason why we've invested in in this the
interesting thing was uh way back kind
of back in like 22 23 our finetuning
offering was I' I'd say like too limited
so that it was very difficult for people
to to tap into and use this data. So it
was just like an SF like a supervised
fine-tuning API and like we're like oh
you can kind of use it but in practice
it really is only useful for like
>> like it's honestly just like instruction
following plus+ you like kind of change
the tone and you're really like
instructing it. Um, but I think the the
the big unlock that has happened
recently is with the reinforcement
fine-tuning model because with that
setup, we're now letting you actual run
actually run RL, which is more finicky
and it's like harder and and you know
like you need to invest more in it, but
it allows you to leverage your data way
more. This is this is just a naive
question for me which is
>> it feels from from just my understanding
from my own portfolio it feels like
there's two modalities of use. One of
them is I've got a treasure trove of
data that I've had for a long time and I
create my model on that treasure trove
of data and all that happens offline and
then I deploy that. Y
>> there's another one which is like I
actually have the product being used in
real time. I've got a bunch of users.
>> Yeah.
>> And like I can actually get much closer
to the user. I can kind of AB test and
decide which data and like it's kind of
more of a near real time thing. is is is
like is this focus on like more product

stuff or more treasure trove or
>> so the dream with the fine tuning API
was that we should be able to handle
both right it's like it's like we
actually had this dream and and we have
this whole like Laura setup with the
fine-tuning inference where we should
just be able to scale to like millions
and millions of of these fine tuned
models which would is usually what would
happen if you have like this online
learning thing in practice it's mostly
been the the format in practice mostly
been like the offline data that they've
like already created or they are
creating with experts or something and
like using their product that they're
that they're able to use here. Um but
the main thing I was trying to uh say
around the reinforcement fine tuning API
is it kind of changes the uh paradigm
away from just like small incremental
improve like tone improvements which is
what SFT did to actually improving the
model to potentially soda level on a
particular use case that you you know
about like that's where people have
really started using the reinforcement
fine tuning API and that's why it's it's
it's gotten more more um uh more uptake
because if if the discussion is less
like hey I can make this model you know
not like speak in a certain way less
compentic

planning or something you can create the
world's best model using your data set
with RFT then it becomes a lot more
>> and will you will you ever like or maybe
do you will you ever like find ways to
get access to that data like you know
listen if I if I had the data and I
wanted cheap GPUs I'd trade you for it
like I don't know like
>> yeah we I mean we we we've talked about
this and uh we've actually been piloting
some pricing here too where it's like um
because this data is like really helpful
uh and and it's kind of hard to get and
um uh if you actually build with the
reinforcement fine tuning API, you can
actually get discounted inference and uh
potentially free training too if you're
willing to share the data. It's always
kind of you know it's up to the the
customer there but uh if they do um it
is helpful for us and and there there
will be benefits for the for the
customer as well.
>> That's awesome.
## Prompt engineering isn’t the point anymore (24:44–28:06)
>> Okay, you you said that views on prompt
engineering have changed.
>> Yeah, I wasn't actually I wasn't aware
of that. All the other things I was
aware of this one I wasn't. How
>> I mean I think the prevailing view this
is back in 2022. I remember I was
talking to so many people and they're
basically I mean this is similar to like
the single model AGI view as well which
is like
>> like prompt engineering is just not
going to be a thing and you're just not
going to have to think about what you're
putting in the in the context window in
the future like the model will just be
good enough and it'll just like know
it'll know what what what you need to do
and that's not a thing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But like that that like I
don't know maybe people forget it but
like that was like a very common belief
back then cuz like the scaling laws or
whatever something with scaling laws and
like you'll just mind mel with the model
and like you just like
>> like prompting and like instruction
following will will be so good that you
won't really need to do it and if
anything like yeah it's like clearly
been wrong and um uh but it is
interesting because I think it's a
slightly different world that we're in
now where the models have gotten really
really good at instruction following
relative to the you know like GBD35 or
something
>> but I think the name of the game now is
is less on like prompt engineering. as
we had thought about it two years ago.
It's more of like it's like the context
engineering side where it's like what
are the tools you give it? What is like
the data that it pulls in? When does it
pull in the right data?
>> Well, this is very interesting. I mean I
mean to reduce it to like an almost
absurdly simplistic level. Like the
weird thing about rag for example, the

classic use of rag is like you're using
like cosine similarity
to choose something that you're going to
feed into a super intelligence.
>>
>> you know, you're like, I'm going to
random. I'm going to like randomly grab
this thing based on like [ __ ]
embedding space. It doesn't really, you
know, and like and then I'm, you know,
when you want the super intelligence
decide the thing to do. And so it's like
pushing intelligence in that retrieval

clearly is something that makes a lot of
sense like the pushing the intelligence
out in a way.
>> Exactly. And and and to be fair, I think
like rag was kind of introduced when the
models were like it's like
pre-ereasoning models. It was like you
only had kind of like one shot to like
do this and it wasn't that smart. Um but
now that we do have the reasoning models
now that we have I mean if you like one
of my favorite models is actually 03
because it was like one of the most
diligent models you kind
>> it would just like do all these tool
calls and it's like really the
intelligence itself trying to like do
the you know tool calls or rag or
anything like that
>> um or write the code to execute um and
so the the paradigm has shifted there
but yeah because of that I think like
condex engineering prompt engineering
what you put what you give the model is
like extra important now
>> y
>> okay so you have API so you the API
which is horizontal You've got chat GBT
and other products which are vertical.
We haven't even talked about pixels.
It's all just just language. Are agents
a new modality? Is that something else?
Like you know like um
>> codeex or
>> what do you mean by modality there?
>> Like um and they feel both vertical and

horizontal to me in a way like to me
chat GBT is a product
>> right? It's like it's a product and like
my mom uses it, right?
>> Y
>> and an API is a dev thing. you kind of
give it to a developer and like a CLI is
kind of somewhere in between to me. It's
like is it a product? Is it like it is
horizontal? Like
>> you know how is it handled internally?
Is it a totally separate team that does
agents or No. So it's um uh

yeah it's interesting because like I I
think the way that I I the way that you
framed it just now almost seemed like
agents was like this like singular
concept that like you know might or like
might have its own particular
>> maybe a better question is what is an
agent to you?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. like even
[clears throat] getting a language
is like important for this
conversation.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I I actually don't even know if it'
be helpful for me to share, but my my
## What an “agent” really is (28:06–31:55)
general take on agents is it's it's a
it's an it's an AI that will take
actions on your behalf that can work
over long time horizons. And I think
that's the that's the pretty general
>> utilitarian definition. But like if you
think about it that way, yeah, I mean
maybe this is what you mean by modality,
but it is just a like way of like using

AI and it is a I guess it could be
viewed as a modality, but we don't view
it as like a separate thing separate
from
API and let me just let me just try and
kind of uh you know give you a sense of
where this question is coming from. Like
I know how to build a product like and
we know how to do go to market for
products. We know how to do like, you
know, we know the implications of
turning them into platforms. Like it's
just we've been doing this for a very
long time, right? We know how to do the
same thing for APIs, right? We know how
to do billing. We know like the tension
of like people build on top of it and
all of that stuff. And like what I've
been trying to and this is just maybe a
personal inquiry. It's just not clear
for me for an agent if you if it if it

sits in one of those two camps. Is it
more like the product camp? Is it more
like the
>> or cuz it's kind of both. Like I could
like literally give you code.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And like as a user and then you just
talk to it or I could like build in a
way kind of embed it in like my app and

so like but then that means something to
you as far as like you know how do you
price it and what does it mean for
ecosystem like like for example like
would you be fine if I started a company
and just like built it around codecs? Is
that a thing?
>> Starting a company and building it
around. I actually think that would be
great. Like it's a we we like released
like the Codex SDK and we like want
people to be able to build it and hack
on it. Yeah. Actually, I think this
might be what you're getting at which is
um
>> uh and this is like a kind of a unique
thing about OpenAI and kind of reflects
on how how it's run which is at the end
like at the end of the day OpenAI is
like a an AGI company. It's like an
intelligence company.
>> And so agents are just like one way in
which this intelligence kind of be
manifested. And so the way that I'd say
we actually think about internally is
all of our different product lines. Sora
codeex API chatbt are just different
interfaces and different ways of
deploying this. you don't really need.
>> So there's no like single teams like
this is you know like thinking about
agents. I would say the way that it it
it manifests itself more is like each
product area thinks about like what is
you know this intelligence is actually
turning into a form where like it can
actually agentic behavior is more
possible. What would that look like in a
first party product like chat GBT? What
would that look like? This is this is
actually why Codex ended up becoming its
own product. It's like what would it
look like in a coding style product?
>> Like we explored it and chat GBT like
kind of worked there but like actually
the CLI interface actually makes a lot
more sense. That's another interface to
deploy it. And then if you look about
the API itself, it's like this is
another interface to deploy it. It's
it's you're thinking about it in a
slightly different way because it's a
developer first mindset. We're helping
other people build it. The pricing is
slightly different, but it's all these
like different manifestations of this
core like um intelligence that is the
the the Asian behavior. Yeah,
>> it is so remarkable how much of this
entire economy is basically just token
laundering. It's like  a
sense, right? It's literally like
anything I can do to get like [gasps]
like English in or like a natural
language in and then like you know the
intelligence out and uh I mean and and
and it's because things are so resistant
to layering. It's so hard to layer a
language out like you know like
>> I could even do it easily with like
codecs. I could just like use it you
know as as a component of a of a program
and just you know basically launder
intelligence through it. I mean of
course you know I'd be charged to do
that. So I I I actually my my my view of
this and having seen now so many kind of
launches of different products. I've
seen agent launches and the definition
that you have. I've definitely seen APIs
>> um and I've seen products on these is
like
>> um they're actually quite different than

like what we're used to. Like the cogs
is different, the defensibility is
different like all so we're kind of
rewriting it.
>> Um and so it's kind of like you know you
came from a kind of pricing background.
I mean you were working on a demo model
for pricing. Now you have the API. So I
just love your thoughts on like I mean
## How OpenAI thinks about pricing (31:55–36:46)
how h how h how have you evolved your
thinking and how do you price these you
know access to intelligence where you

know you don't know how many people
going to use it almost certainly usage
based billing not something else like
can you can you talk just a bit about
like philosophy around pricing on these
things is it different for product
versus API like
>> yeah I think um the the the honest truth

here is like it's evolved over time as
well and and like I actually think the
simplest like the reason why we've and
uh usage based pricing on the API
honestly is because it's been like it's
closest to how it's actually being used.
And so that's kind of how we how we
started. I actually think usage based
pricing on the API has has has like
surprisingly held strong and like I
actually think this might be something
that we'll keep doing for for quite a
long time. Mostly because um
>> the so I don't know how you don't do
usage base.
>> I just don't know how that
>> Yeah. And then and then and then there's
also the strategy of like how we price
it and and and internally one thing we
do is is uh we always make sure that we
actually price our our our usage based
pricing from a like cost plus
perspective like we're we're actually
just like trying to make sure that we're
being responsible from a from a margin
perspective. Uh by the way this is a
huge shift in the industry in general
just because like I remember the shift
from onrem to uh to recurring.
>> Yeah that was a big big deal like that
created Zora like it like created whole
companies like their whole books on like
a bunch of consultants on how you do
this. to change like
>> you know and like I think the shift to
to usage is is as bigger bigger and it's

also even a really hard technical
problem like
>> I can't even imagine 800 million wow
like how do you build
>> yeah well well well 800 million WOW is a
little easier because it's it's not user
based pricing it's subscription so it's
like that way but I mean there's still
like uh like a lot of users on the API
that we need to like you know manage all
the building side
>> there's some like overages or stuff
you've got to deal with on that or
>> uh what do you mean by overages like
>> I don't know. I guess
>> most people have quotas and then we'll
we'll kind of like max that we don't let
people go over but like in practice
these quotas are like pretty pretty
massive
>> and that would literally be like one of
the most complex systems somebody's ever
built if you would do usage base at like
that scale. I mean these are very very
very and like you have to be correct
like these are very hard systems to
scale.
>> Yep. Yep. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. I mean we
have a whole team thinking about this
now internally. Um yeah I mean usage
pricing is also interesting. So there's
um uh we acquired this company um uh
called Roxet a while ago. a founder. His
name is Venot. He's right here. Awesome.
Venot's Vanc's incredible. I He's one of
the best. Like
>> Ven Cott, if you're listening, we're
huge fans. I'm I'm a huge fan.
>> He's he's going to love this. Um
>> No, he's great, man. He's a legend.
>> Anyways, I was talking to him uh about
pricing uh as well. And his his his take
is is uh that pricing is kind of like a
one-way ratchet. And like basically once
you get a taste of usage based pricing,
you're never going to go back to like
the per the like per deployment uh type
pricing. And I think that's definitely
true. And I think it's just cuz it's
getting it gets closer and closer to
like your true utility. You're getting
all this thing. The main pain point is
like you have to maintain all infra.
Yeah. To like get it to work well. But
if you do have it, he he thinks it's
like a one-way ratchet where like
there's just like no no going back.
>> And then and I think the hot new thing
now is like oh with AI you can now kind
of measure like outcomes. And so that's
like another, you know, like step
forward. And if that works like maybe
it's a oneway ratchet.
>> Um so we we thought about that is like
you know is there some type of like
outcome based pricing. This is more on
the first party side on an API. It's
kind of hard to measure. very hard. I
mean, that's hard because you end up
having to price and value non-computer

science infrastructure, right? Like,
you're literally going into
verticalization now. Like, you're like,
>> I mean, listen, if it's like porting a
codebase, maybe you'd have some
expertise, but if it's like whatever,
like increasing crop yield,
>> at some level, you need to like
>> but but there could be a world where
like the AI is like good enough where it
can like actually, you know, make
judgments of these and do it in an
accurate enough way where we can tie it
to to billing. I think this is a problem
with AI conversations because like at
any point in time you're like but it
could get good enough.
>> It's not a problem anymore.
>> Yeah. At some point it'll be solved.
>> It's so much like the prompt engineering
and the single age I think from before.
Yeah. Yeah. It's like when you when you
reach that level of of when you push it
that far everything's kind of solved on
uh outcome based pricing. Um it sounds
very appealing like if it can work it
can work. But one uh thing that uh we've
started realizing is
>> um it actually ends up correlating quite
a bit with usage based pricing
especially with test time compute like
if the thing is just like thinking quite
a bit like actually you know if you
charge just by usage race usage based
and not outcome based you're like
basically approximating outcome based at
this point.
>> Um if the thing is like thinking for
like so long it's like highly correlated
with with with what it's doing
>> just adding more value.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And so like maybe
at the end of the day like usage based
pricing is all you need and it's like
we're just going to like you know live
in this in this world forever. Um but uh
yeah I don't know it's it's constantly
evolving. I think our change our
thinking has evolved here as well. Um I
I I personally am like keeping track of
if um the outcome based pricing setups
can actually work here but at least on
the API side I think you know it's it's
such a usage based setup we have to get
infrastructure around this and so I
think we'll probably stay with that for
## Why open-weights don’t kill the API (36:46–42:57)
a while.
>> So how do you think about open source? I
mean, you know, I think you're the only
big lab that's releasing open source. Is
that
>> No, Google has uh some of theirs. Yeah.
Mostly smaller models on their
>> side. That's right. Yeah. So, how do you
think about open source visav,
>> you know, competition, cannibalization,
you know, like what's what's the
strategical
what's the complexity?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, so, uh, I personally

love open source. Like I I think I think
it's great that there's a
>> All of us grew up with it, right?
>> Yeah. grew up with it like the internet
wouldn't exist without it like you know
so much of the world world is built
built on top of it
>> cloud wouldn't exist without of it
nothing would exist without of it except
for maybe windows
>> and so it was interesting cuz like I
felt like over the last before we
launched the open source model I know
Sam feels this way as well it's like
there's this like weird like you know uh

mindset where because openi hadn't
launched anything it just seemed like it
was super like anti like open was like
super anti open source
>> um but I'd actually been having
conversations with Sam ever since I
joined about open sourcing a We were
trying to think about like how can we
sequence it? What comput is always a
hard thing. It's like do we have the
compute to kind of like train train this
thing? So we've always wanted to kind of
do this. I'm really glad that we were
able to finally do it.
>> I think it was ear was it earlier this
year? I like lost sense of time.
>> AI time is so good.
>> Yeah. Was it last year? No, it was this
year. Yeah. When GPOSS came out. Um and
so I was just really glad that that that
we did that. The way that I generally
think about it is one um I think as a um

this is also particularly true for um
for OpenAI because as you said we are
vertical and a horizontal company is
like we want to continue investing in
the ecosystem and just from a like brand
perspective I think it's good but then
also
>> I think from OpenAI's perspective um
>> uh if uh the AI ecosystem grows more and
more it's like a rising tide and like
yeah this is all like really helpful for
us uh and if if we can launch an open
source model and it helps like unlock a
whole bunch other use cases in the other
industries. I think that's, you know,
that's that's actually not good for us.
>> I'll say what what what people don't
talk about a lot is like how well these
open source AI business models actually
work because like this is very like like
the cannibalization risk is actually
very low.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and like you don't really enable
competitors a lot because I mean when we
say open source you really mean open
weights, right? It's not like they could
recreate it, right? you know, and like
if I can distill your API as well as I
can distill like you giving me the
weights in some way like so like it
doesn't really change that dynamic a
lot.
>> Um but
>> yeah I mean to be to be clear like we
have not seen cannibalization at all
from models and it's like it's like
seems like a very different set of use
cases. Um the customers tend to be like
slightly different. The use cases are
very different.
>> Um
>> and by the way it turns out inference is
super hard like to actually have like
scalable fast performant that's a hard
hard problem.
>> Yeah. So, so like I'd say the way that I
personally think about open source in
relation to the API business in
particular is uh well one it hasn't
shown cannibalization risks. So, you
know, I'm not particularly worried about
that. But also like especially for all
these major labs, like there are usually
like two or three models where like that
is where you're making all of your
impact, all of your revenue and those
are the ones where we're throwing a
bunch of resources into improving the
model and these tend to be the larger
ones that are like extremely hard to
inference. um we have a really cracked
inference team at at OpenAI and my sense
is like even if we just like you know
open source them like if we just
literally open sourced GBD5 or something
it would be really really hard to
inference it at the level that we were
able to to get it um to do. There's also
by the way like feedback loop between
the inference team and like the training
team too. So like we can kind of like
optimize.
>> Can you can you like is it possible to
verticalize models for products?
>> I have you like train models
specifically for products?
>> Yeah, I mean to actually Yeah. Uh I I
think I mean we've kind of done this
with GPD5 codecs, right? Or do you mean
like even more verticalization like
verticalization
>> like like deep deep deep verticalization
where like you know like the like like
the the released model wouldn't you know
it's like actually part of a product.

>> I think we're like basically starting to
move in that direction. Um I think
there's a question of how deeply you
verticalize it. I think most of what
we've done is mostly at like the post-
trainining like the tool use level like
codex is particularly good at using the
sorry GB5 code is particularly good at
using the codeex harness. Um but uh
there's like even deeper verticalization
you can do like that and that one I
think is more of an open question.
>> Yeah. Well, like a lot a lot of my I
mean a lot of my mental model this comes
from the pixel space which is like you

you know um you can lura

a bunch of image models right and you
can you can do a bunch of stuff to make
it better and more suitable for some
products for example um but like these
open- source
models are really really good and like I
you would believe that you could like
verticalize a model for like editing or
cut and paste or this or that you know
like that's actually part of this but
you actually don't see Did that happen?
>> Yeah, it it's almost always like you're
just kind of exposing like a a model,
not something like specific to a
product.
>> Yeah, I think I think so. I think
there's a distinction to be made between
the like the the image model space and
the text model space also because the
image models tend to be way smaller and
like you can iterate on it a lot faster.
Like that's why you get that crazy cool
proliferation of like the image model
side whereas like I don't know for the
text models there's always going to be
this like really big fat pre-training
step that like you have to invest in
here and then even the post training
side is like
>> you know it's not the it's not like the
easiest thing like it's you know uh we
like just from a compute perspective
obviously it's much smaller but like
it's still pretty heavy to do like a
full mid train or like a post- training
run
>> uh and so I I actually think like that's
one of the big bigger bottlenecks um
because I think you're you're you are
right that like on the image side yeah
you can like fine tune a like image
diffusion model to be like extremely
good at like editing faces something
very specific and build a product around
that and it's like yeah you can just
kind of put all these resources into and
iterate on that one specific model
whereas it's much it's a much heavier
motion it seems like on the tech side
>> I I got to say I it is a bit of an
anti-attern to do both languages like

language based models and diffusion like
pixel models in the same company like
>> um most that have tried like it found it

very clunky to do it but
>> I mean you and Google are the two kind
of counter examples for this. And so
like
>> is it possible to even like converge the
infrastructures on these things? Like I
mean is it totally different orgs? Is it
shared infrastructure? Like how do you
## Different stacks for text, images, video (42:57–45:47)
operationalize?
>> Yeah, I think uh I think you're totally
right. It's an anti pattern. It's pretty
tough to pull off. Um
>> uh I think honestly like props to Mark
on our research team for like you know
structuring things in a way we're we're
able to do it. Um for from my
perspective, I think the biggest thing
is I think our like image uh like our
our um I think call like the world
simulation team or like the team that
builds Sora and all that under Aditia uh
is just extremely solid like they are
pro it's like the highest concentration
of like talent that I've seen in a
while.
>> But is it the same like is it the is it
like are they like totally separate
infrastructure? Do they use the same
>> infra? Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's it's
actually like pretty separate. So and I
think that's part of the the reason why
we're able to kind of do this. Well,
it's like one is like the team needs to
be extremely strong, which which which
they are. And then two is um they're
they're they're run very separately.
They're kind of like thinking about
their own uh particular road map. They
think about productization very
separately as well, right? Which is how
like the Sora app kind of came came out
of that as well.
>> Um and then uh yeah, even like the
inference stacks are are slightly
different are are kind of like
different. Um they they they own a lot
more around their inference stack and
they optimize their inference stack
pretty pretty uh separately. And so um I

think that that contributes to to
helping us run things in parallel but uh
uh it's pretty hard to pull off for
sure.
>> May May maybe you can educate this on me
like so I think about APIs as mostly
text based from Open AI. Do you guys do
actual do you do actual pixel based
stuff?
>> Yeah. Yeah, we do. We have a bunch uh so
Dolly Dolly in the API the OG uh OG

model. Uh Dolly 2 is in the API.
>> That was like the first real text image
model, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That that was
actually the model that got me to go to
OpenAI because it was it was this summer
when I was looking for I was thinking
about something new. It's when Dolly 2
came out and it just completely blew my
mind. Wow.
>> Uh and I distinctly remember I was like
asking it to do the simplest thing like
draw a picture of a duck or something.
It was like the simplest
thing now and it just like it it
generated a picture of a you know like a
white duck and so uh uh that that was
actually the thing that that kind of got
me to to open in the first place. But
yeah, we have a bunch in our uh in our
API. Uh the image gen model uh as well
is in our API and then Sora 2 is in our
API. We launched it at dev day. It's
actually been a huge hit. I've been very
very surprised. Um need more GPUs for
that. Um but uh the amount of use cases
>> and then from your standpoint like you
can converge that like the API
infrastructure probably like that.
>> Uh yeah. So so there's yeah I'd say on
the API side a lot of the infrastructure
is shared for those but once you reach
the inference level they're they're
separate right because you got to
inference them differently. Um, and it
is that team that has just like been
really laser focused on making that side
particularly efficient and and uh uh uh

yeah and and work well uh separate from
the from the text models. Um but yeah,
yeah, we have image gen, we have video
gen um and we'll continue adding more uh
to the API there. So it's it it feels
like uh we've been evolving our our our
our thinking as an industry on a bunch
of stuff, right? Like one of them for
sure is like the models like we've
talked about. The other one is like
context engineering. It seems to me that
## How the agent builder actually works (45:47–53:22)
like actually how you build agents and
expose them has evolved too. So maybe
you can talk a bit about that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think um so at dev day

this year when we launched our agent
builder I got a bunch of questions
around this because agent builder was
like the bunch of different nodes and
it's like the deterministic thing and I
was like oh is this really like the
future
>> future of agents and
>> um we obviously put a lot of thought
into this when we were thinking about
building that product. But the way I
think about it is
>> do you think they came from a point of
being constrained by the way? They're
like, "Oh, this is too constraining."
And like,
>> yeah, I think people are like, "It's too
constraining. It's not like AGI forward,
you know, like at the end of again at
the end of the day, the AGI will do
everything." And so, like,
why not why have nodes in this like node
builder thing?
>> Just tell it what to do.
>> Yeah. And so, I think there's like two
things at play here. One of them is like
there is a like practicality component.
And then the other thing is I think
there are actually like different types
of work that exist out there that could
be automated into agents. And so on the
practicality side is yeah like the
models today just like maybe in some
future world instruction following would
be so good that you just like ask it to
do this fourstep process and it like
always does the fourstep process.
Exactly. Um we're still not there yet
and in the meantime you know this entire
industry being born and a lot of you
know people still want to use these
models like what what can you build for
them? So there's a practicality
component of it.
>> When when when did you launch that
>> uh dev day? So feels like forever ago.

earlier this month. Uh October
uh it was like October 6th or
something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, less
than a month ago, actually.
>> Okay.
>> Um uh it's been it's it's been crazy
seeing the the uh uh reception to it. By
the way, like it's uh the I think the
video where Christina on my team demos
agent builder is like one of the most
viewed videos on our YouTube channel.
Now,
>> I will say I will say just anecdotally
from kind of my perspective, people love
it and
>> but I also saw the dissonance too. Like
I saw when it came out, people were
like, "Wait, what is this? Is this no
code? Low code?"
>> Yeah, exactly. It's another low code
thing. Um
>> I know people love it. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So there's a practicality piece.
There's another piece which is like when
we were talking to our customers, we've
realized that there's like cuz at the
end of the day, a lot of this um the
agent work is just trying to automate
work and like what people do in their
day-to-day jobs. There's like actually
like two different types of work.
There's the work that we think about
which is like maybe what like software
engineers do which like it's very
undirected. there's like a high level
goal and and then you have like you know
you have your cursor and you're just
like writing writing code and and you
you're kind of like exploring things and
going towards an objective that's like I
don't know more like knowledge based
work like data analysis maybe like that
like coding is kind of like this
>> um but then there's another type of work
which is actually what we realize is
like maybe even more prevalent in
industry than than than software we're
just we're just not aware of it which is
work tends to be very procedural very
like SOP oriented like customer support
is a good example of this like customer
support there's like very clear policy
that these agents and people have to
follow and uh it is actually not great
for them to deviate from this and like
try something else. It's like the the
team really the the the people running
these teams just really want the the
SOPs to be followed.
>> Uh and this pattern actually generalizes
a different work
>> a standard operating procedure. Yeah.
Sorry. Uh so it's like uh the way in
which uh you need to operate the the um
the um the support team. But like this
extends to like marketing, this extends
to like sales, extends to like a bunch
way more than it has any right to. And
what we realiz
on that side to have determinism here of

an agent builder with nodes that kind of
like helps enforce this thing ends up
being very helpful. But I think a lot of
us especially in Silicon Valley don't
really appreciate that there's like a
ton of work that actually falls into
this camp.
>> I got to say like there's a pattern
that's similar to this. I'm wondering if
you've seen it that I've seen where um
some regulated industries actually can't
let any generated content go to a user.
Yeah. Right.
>> And so what they do is think it's so
interesting. They'll like either pass in
like like a a a conversation tree and

like you can choose something from here.
>> Yeah. So there's some human element uh
to it.
>> So so as part of the prompt they're like
here are the viable things you can say
choose which one to say. So the language
reasoning is happening by the model but
nothing generated comes out.
>> Interesting. Interesting.
>> Does that make sense?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And then another one I've seen is like
actual pseudo code. I'll pass in like a
Python function
>> and then it'll ask a human to like write
like uh use the pseudo code to write
actual code that that makes it in or
>> the it actually has a response catalog
as part of it and it has like the logic
to apply and then interesting
>> and so like the model takes the language
in from the it takes the language in
from the human user
>> and then well like you know the logic of
how to respond is I can Python code
because it just turns out that like
there's been a lot of code written for
these types of things and then it
includes the responses that you would
send out. Does that make sense?
Actually, a lot of NPCs are done this
way, like actually video game NPC. So,
so cuz cuz the way that I think about it
is like
>> So, so that way the with the NPCs, it's
the the the actual code being generated
by the model is not what ends up making
it to the to the end user to the
>> that's it's not the the code is not
being generated by the model. It's the
prompt has the code. So, like, so let's
say let's say that I have an NPC and I
want the NPC
>> like let's say you're you're you're the
gamer and um so you're you're coming in
and you're talking to my NPC, but my NPC
has some logic that it needs to do like
if you say a certain thing, I'll give
you a key or maybe I'll barter
>> like describing the game logic in
English just doesn't work actually if
you try and do it. And then and then
like actually scripting the output
doesn't work either if you needed to use
it in a game context like you would have
to know like give like a specific
direction or a specific this or that. So
how do you make these things behave in a
more constrained way?
>> People will pass in functions like
they'll actually describe the logic in
Python. So like my prompt will be like
you're an NPC in a video game. The user
just asked you a question. Here's the
logic you should go through. If the user
says this then do this. It's like the
pseudo code like if the user has this
you know in the belt do this like
whatever whatever whatever and then here
are the set of valid responses. And so
you're almost constraining.
>> Oh I see. I see. And then when it
actually does do a response, you can you
can validate that it's one of those
responses.
>> I see. So it's like highly structured.
Yeah. Okay. So the NPC still only exists
in that like the space that it can act
in is still only within the space of the
the program that you gave
>> the the the Yeah. Well, the logic is in
there. So it can have a normal
conversation, but like in as much as
you're trying to guide the logic for
like like like game design or game
logic. So, so you see this with NPCs,
but you also see this with regulated
industries where like I literally can't
have it like
>> Yeah, I was going to say what you
described kind of sounds like, you know,
giving the the SOPs to like your set of
human operators to like have to stick to
it, please.
>> Yeah. You must say these three things
and here's like the
>> you cannot give a refund if it's like
less than this amount. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Very interesting. Yeah. I mean I
mean Yeah. I don't want to equate them
to NPCs, but like this is
very similar to similar. I'm just saying
it's actually like if you want if you
want to really guarantee what happens,
you have there's like a set of
techniques that you do and like
>> there's some situations where you want
to constrain what they do. It could be
from a regulatory standpoint. It could
be because you want it to run for a long
time. And it also could be because I
actually have game logic and my game
logic is a traditional program like I
have like a monetary system. I have an
item system. I have a battle system.
Like you can't describe that in English.
Like you have to kind of give it to them
so it can behave within that.
>> Yes. And that is that is exactly the
problem I think we're trying to solve
here, right? like if you do not give it
any of this like it can just kind of go
off and do do whatever and yeah there
are like regular regulatory concerns
around this um and that is the exact use
case that I think we're trying to target
with Asian builder.
>> That's awesome. Well listen well we're
running out of time and there's a
million more things I want to ask you
but I listen I really appreciate your
time to come in. It was great kind of
surveying like what's going on um and
particularly like teasing apart
horizontal versus vertical in the space
which I really want to do. So thank you
so much.
>> Yeah, thank you.

>>