## Introduction (0:00–2:51)
people are spending a lot on these
models. They're presumably doing this
because they're getting value from them.
You can maybe argue like, oh well, I
don't think that value is real. I think
people are just playing around,
whatever. But like  whatever,
they're paying for it. That's a pretty
solid sign. We're almost giving you here
the useful answer of like, I don't think
it's a bubble cuz it's not burst yet.
When it's burst yet, then you'll know
it's a bubble. People often make the
case, oh, AI hasn't been profitable yet,
and they're spending more to make it
profitable. In reality, they'll have
paid off the cost of all the development
they've done in the past very soon. It's

just that they're doing develop more
development for the future.
>> Will they regret that spending? How much
are they spending? You can look at
Nvidia and how much they're selling each
year and you can see whether it keeps on
growing and you can  see whether
stuff is kind of looking good to
continue. Math seems unusually easy for
AI. I'm going to be honest. People often
make claims about it being like this you
know intuitive deep thing that it would
mean that AI has achieved something some
huge level of intelligence for it to
solve. I think in practice this is just
like you know making a piece of art. It
turns out to be farther farther down the
capabilities tree than people might have
guessed. We sort of had this with chess
decades ago, right? Like computers
solved chess very well and everyone was
thinking of this as the pinnacle of
reasoning and everyone as a result kind
of concluded like oh well of course
computers can do chess. The like
interesting scenario to think about you
know 20% chance 30% chance something
like this will happen  in the
next decade is like you know a 5%
increase in unemployment over over a
very short period of time like  6
months due to AI. The public's reaction
to this will determine a lot. There will
be very very strong feelings about AI
once this happens. I think there will be
a bunch of very strong consensus on what
to do on things that we don't normally
think of as things that people are
considering. I know when this happened
with co there was a several trillion
dollar stimulus package in a matter of
weeks to days. It was  break neck
speed. I don't know what that will look
like for AI but I think it's like
everything else in AI. It's exponential
which means it will pass the point of
people sort of care about it to people
really care about it quite fast. I just
expect wherever we end up there will be
this certain thing which we would have
considered unimaginable a year ago.

Guys, there's a lot of conversation
about the macro or are we in a bubble?
How should we even think about this
question? And we're going to get into
forecasting later on, but why don't you
just take your first stab at how you
approach such a big general question?
>> Yeah, I mean, for me at least, um, the
way that I thought about this a little
bit is I look at kind of the big
indicator being how much people are
spending on stuff like compute. And I
guess maybe some sense of will they
regret that spending, that's relevant.
the how much are they spending thing
## Pre-training plateaus vs post-training innovations (2:51–5:10)
like you can see you can look at Nvidia
and how much they're selling each year
and you can see whether it keeps on
growing and you can see whether stuff is
kind of looking good to continue the
will they regret it side I mean that's
just to bec right like we'll actually
have to wait and see it does seem as if
most compute gets spent on inference
that companies don't so far regret like
using to offer their products so I mean
on that side I'm like thinking not too

bubbly yet. Um but yeah, I low

confidence. So there's other stuff to
think about.
>> Yeah. Uh right now the amount of money
companies are actually earning in profit
not including the cost to develop the
models initially is seems to be like
very positive such that if they stop
developing bigger and bigger models and
just stick with the ones they've had,
they've be they'd have earned a profit
pretty quickly at the current margins.
Um and in this sense it doesn't seem
bubbly. On the other hand, um at any

given time they are investing in
building even uh in building even larger
and larger models and you know if that
goes well then they'll earn more money
and if that doesn't go well then no
matter how profitable they are right now
it'll be uh a small amount of money

compared to how much they would have
spent. Um so it's like uh I think right

now there are not financial signs that
that things are actually that there's a
bubble. Um, a lot of people worrying
about bubbles just like aren't
necessarily used to the level of
spending um, and just like the level of

success that sort of happened in like
scaling. Uh, but if it there is a
bubble, it could happen very suddenly
and be pretty bad. So,
>> yeah, I think we're almost giving you
here the useful answer of like I don't
think it's a bubble because it's not
burst yet. When it's burst yet, then
you'll know it's a bubble.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I do think like there's you
could imagine a world which there's all
the spending and the current level of
success does does not like people often

make the case oh AI hasn't been
profitable yet and they're spending more
to make it profitable but right now it's
you know not making anything and in
reality they're making you know they'll
have paid off the cost of all the
development they've done in the past
very soon it's just that they're doing
develop more development for the future
uh so I think like there's this like
underlying financial success so far that

I wouldn't expect to see if there were
## Why software-only singularity seems unlikely (5:10–11:16)
the very least an obvious bubble.
>> Yeah, that does seem very relevant.
People are spending a lot on these
models. They're presum like, you know,
users to use them. They're presumably
doing this because they're getting value
from them. You can maybe argue like, oh
well, I don't think that value is real.
I think people are just playing around,
whatever. But like whatever, they're
paying for it. You know, that's that's a
pretty solid sign. I I guess one quick
question on on related to this is like
you talked in the report of the AI in
2030 basically that you haven't seen
signs of of um basically these models

kind of plateauing or like the
capabilities keep increasing and you
have the benchmarks you have the amount
of data that is going the amount of
compute do you think phases or parts of
the models are plateauing though like
for instance pre-training um are we
seeing some sort of plateauing in that
or do you think people are still
exploring some innovations in that stage
and u curious on what you think about
that.
>> Yeah, I think this gets a bit harder

to look at like we get to an area where
there isn't as much public data to say a
lot, right? It seems as if pre-training
is comparatively less of a focus than it
was before partly because like you have
this exciting new direction of well new

newish direction of postraining where
they've done so much about reasoning
whatever. Um, but then I don't
necessarily take that as evidence of
like, oh no, and that means pre-training
you couldn't scale further, whatever.
Like, it seems as if there is
meaningfully more data out there. It
seems as if plausibly like even, you

know, a lot of this stuff is quite
synergistic. You develop a better model.
You like use post-training stuff to make
it better. You get a load of data of the
model actually being used uh
successfully or not. A lot of that can
probably go into pre-training next time.
you you aren't projecting a software
only singularity where AI is able to
automate AI research uh because
automated feedback loop why not
>> yeah I mean I guess like I might answer
this and I'll yeah say more and it's
like for me it's like that report it's

no one person's kind of oh this is like

the forecast this is the prediction
right this report very specifically
looks at what are the current trends are
there reasons that they clearly like
couldn't continue or might not and if
they do continue where do they lead um I

think whether you see this
self-improvement thing that's very hard
to do from a sort of trend extrapolation
basis right like currently AI stuff does

help AI R&D at least a little in terms
of stuff like uh coding or selecting
your data sets and creating those
whatever but it's quite hard to actually
measure and it's not really helping in
some big way like this kind of
self-improving thing suggest um there

are reasons that you might think it
could be very hard. Uh people have
discussed before how possibly you know
if stuff does just depend a lot on

scaling up compute then maybe automating

a lot of the R&D isn't that helpful. Um

I find that somewhat compelling but I
think it's also just it's pretty
uncertain. It's hard to speculate about
something that's quite out of regime

like that. One thing that needs to
happen in order for a software only
singularity to occur is you need to be
in this world where scaling up the
amount of researcher R&D time basically

um allows you to like improve AI enough

that it makes up for the lack of being
able to scale experimental compute or
pre or pre-training. I think that

something you would expect to see if
this were the case is, you know, maybe
not that much experimental compute being
used in practice and instead all of the
money is going towards researchers. Now,
there's a very good case that there's a
very large amount of money going towards
researchers. But as far as we can tell,
experimental compute, which you seem to
need to do research,
is al is receiving a similar amount of
money and that in fact uh it's receiving
many times more money than the final
training runs that are actually of the
models that are actually being released.
I I think this is uh in my mind is a

strong update towards oh you actually
need this you need to do very large
scale experiments to do research and
that we don't really have large have
good evidence that researchers and just
researchers would be able to speed speed
things up without doing more
experiments. Um however um the actual

there are like pretty good arguments on
either side of this. I tend to lean
towards no, you actually need to do more
experiments and that means you can't get
this software only uh singularity. Um
but I don't think the people who claim
otherwise are like crazy. I think
they're making some like they have like
very reasonable differences and we're
both uh speculating on something where
the data is currently pretty sparse.
actually related to that like what do
you think on so so if if you have like
some of some of the exploration that
researchers are trying I mean obviously
like people are exploring a lot with RL
trying to go beyond verifiable domains
and um and what do you think about the
argument for instance that gradient
descent is is really good on learning in
the current data set that you're giving
right and just if you keep training this
over and over it's going to start
forgetting things that it was trained
before right like catastrophic
forgetting and and is this there's this
argument right like well kids don't
don't learn that way or like you maybe
there's some imitation learning that
kids do maybe there's some sort of
exploration that they do and uh I wonder
what you think about it. I mean if and
it sounds right like if kids really
would just learn on imitation learning I
think parents would have a great time
just raising kids but it seems like the
reason why they have such a hard time
raising kids is because they explore all
these different things. What do you
think about it in terms of the
algorithms and like the things we need
to keep improving these models over and
over beyond the data and the compute? I

am cautious about comparing the like how
AI learn to how humans learn. Not
because I don't think they are
comparable, but because I think we know
a lot more about how AIs learn right now
than we know about how humans learn. And
people like making sort of assumptions
about how human learning works and
saying, "Oh, AI doesn't do it that way."
## Evaluating Dario's bold predictions on AI capabilities (11:16–16:12)
And I don't know, maybe that's true. Um
maybe human kids learn via RL. Um I I

I'm not very
I I think that yeah I I I don't have
strong opinions on whether or not like
you know you need to change to a method
that's more like what we think kids do
right now. I suspect people will find
some method that works to use the
compute available because they've been
able to do this in the past.
>> Yeah. I'm also sort of reluctant. I

guess as well it's one of those things
where when we point to particular issues

like the example of catastrophic
forgetting it's sort of well okay but as

we've scaled up we have managed to do
quite well at like having models that
remember more and more things. Um, this
isn't to say that hence the problem is
solved, hence we're done, hence no more
innovations necessary or anything like
that, but I'm not exactly going to write
it off.
>> Yeah, I don't I definitely don't think
we've seen any slowdown yet in

capabilities
uh from any of these concerns people
have. I think that people always have
these sorts of concerns. I'm I'm
reluctant to believe any given one of
them until this actually shows up in
numbers I can see on a graph. Uh which I
just don't think has happened yet.
>> Dariothropic has has said he said in
March 2025 that uh within 6 months AI

will write 90% of code and of course
that hasn't happened yet. He also said
we have you know we could have AI
systems equivalent of a country of
geniuses in a data center as soon as
2026 or 2027. How do you evaluate why an

anthropic is so is so bullish or or what
is the crux of difference between what
what they believe and perhaps what you
believe?
>> My model at least which I don't know if

it's right but what it is is that they

think a bit more like the people who
believe in uh you automate R&D and that

gives you very quick takeoff. So they
see it as like, yep, we're working on
these AIs that are great for kind of
research engineering type coding and at
some point they're going to be useful
and that's going to rapidly accelerate
us to develop the next ones and then
it's going to be quick progress.
Yeah, I think that uh it's hard to tell

uh the extent to which

I I don't think we've gotten a lot of
evidence that their sort of views of
this like software only take off are
wrong in so far as like they will taking
a little bit longer to get to like the
minimum level of competence for AI to
get you there. Definitely seems to be
the case, but it I I don't know. It's
it's hard to tell the extent to which
we've actually had significant updates
on this. I know Dario often qualifies
what he says by like saying as soon as
or something like this. Um so this is

like maybe the more more so the faster
timelines he gives. Although I'm not
sure.
Yeah, there has also been I think sort
of you know Talmud style commentary
where people are carefully looking at
his exact wording and then at wording of
other people's discussion of how many
lines of code that are generated by some
teams at anthropic are generated by
claude code and whether this does or
doesn't satisfy what you said. So it
gets a bit tricky. Yeah, I remember
there was the uh the paper from um the
the uplift paper that was claiming that
actually models would slow you down, but
I think like it mattered a lot what
models they were using at the time
because I think they were pretty
outdated by the time the report came
out. And uh I mean in my personal
experience that you definitely become
way faster and and and it just does so

much more for you like you're just
having the whole context on your
codebase that's such a huge advantage
that I think for a human just would be
really hard to do. Um, I mean far more
than 90% of the code I write is written
by AI these days. Uh, but I know I'm not

like the average coder uh at all, but
it's definitely it's definitely I don't
think it's like a wild prediction at
this point that 90% of code is going to
be written by AI. Um I mean for all I
know somewhere at OpenAI there's someone
just you know or that you know with
alpha code doing evolutionary
uh algorithms on having tons and tons of
trials uh trying to you know million
shot some hard problem uh that it's just

like it's really unclear how many lines
of code are actually being written by AI
right now. I don't think it's such a
wild I it's by a lot of like people's

intuitive sense in terms of like oh is
90% of the job of a programmer being
done by AIS definitely not but there's

this more complicated sense of like how
much is being written by AI probably not
90% but it's it's hard to tell

>> yeah and I think that is a very
meaningful distinction you know like um
if you were to measure how many lines of
code are being written quote unquote by
like tab completion then it's probably
quite high but you don't necessarily
## AI's labor market impact over the next decade (16:12–24:27)
expect that that's taking on that much
of the programmer's really hard work
that uplift paper that you mentioned
like I find it really interesting and
really good and it's also surprisingly
recent in a way like you know you
mentioned ah the models are outdated but
I mean this was early 2025 so these were

models that people actually did think
were helping them and in the paper they
even got them to say ahead of time like
how much do you think this will speed
you up and they said yeah I think
however much They they then ask them
afterwards, how much do you think this
sped you up? And they're like, yeah,
yeah, it sped me up. And I I feel it
does reveal actually like it might be
hard for us to judge uh whether we were

sped up or not.
>> Yeah. One thing that might be happening
here is that a lot of the code that's
getting written by AI is code that
wouldn't have been written otherwise.
So, it's not really speeding up things
that would normally happen. But, you
know, there's a lot of simple graphs or
simulations I run that might have not
gotten written otherwise. Uh and so it's

it it's hard to tell uh exactly what's

going on here uh in terms of the
impacts. I think at the end of the day,
the most reliable indicator here is
going to be how much money these people
are making from programmers um and from
you know subscriptions in general. And
it's a lot of money. I think there's
definitely indications that people are
finding a use for them and probably a
decent amount of that use is for coding
but not exactly for the metric of doing
90% of an existing coder's job. Yeah,

biology is this phrase that's been being
used a lot which is um AI is an end to

end. It's it's middle to middle um and
which is meant to imply that um you know
we're going to need a lot more human
involvement than some people you know
typically think. What what is your
mental model of uh what AI is is going
to do for for labor markets either on
the sort of lower end and on the higher
end in the next you know decade let's
say. Oh, in the next decade I like on

the higher end I'm definitely like you
know
probably I expect new jobs to be
created. Everyone could still be
influencers but uh on the higher end
it's like there are not very good

individual things that you can point to
where it's very obvious that AI can't
automate that job at this point. Yeah,

you could argue okay but there's some
unknowns and I think it's like pretty
reasonable but those unknowns we

sometimes you know we AI gets up against
it limits and we figure out what they
are and then it learn surpasses that and

I don't know at the higher end it
definitely seems plausible that it could
just automate all of the basically all
of existing jobs with the exceptions of
ones that require manual labor that
people actually care about being done by
a human. Um it just like

does not seem at all implausible to me
that that can happen. Um or that that
could happen very fast. Uh

uh with the uh caveat there being like
there's probably some regulatory push
back if that happens. Um on the lower
end uh I don't know could just you know
could be a bubble and doesn't have any
impact. Uh the thing I talk about when
I'm talking about like the the like
interesting scenario to think about
which I'm not I don't know you know 20%
chance 30% chance something like this
will happen in the next decade is like
you know a 5% increase in unemployment
over over a very short period of time
like 6 months due to AI being released
to something that I think will have a

very substantial impact on the world
both in terms of how people think about
AI um and sort of how much attention it
gets and seems plausible to

Uh but you know far from guaranteed.

>> Yeah, I think I strongly agree with
being just highly uncertain. Uh it seems

very plausible to me that you end up
more or less kind of, you know, this
generation actually is exactly where we
run out of progress. It would be kind of
crazy, but it could happen. Uh, and then
it's like, oh, okay, everything is very
much just generating more jobs for
technical people to try to integrate it
into doing kind of useful but janky
things for all of the existing work
people do. Uh, the stuff where it kind

of becomes a crazy runaway thing that
you can yeah really automate large

swaves of remote work with. I mean, my
timelines are, I guess, probably a bit
longer than the others, but yeah, I
mean, it seems hard to rule out that
something really big happens in a
decade. A decade's quite a long time.
>> I think I would be surprised if there

were not 5% of jobs that exist now,
which AI has automated away over the
course of the next decade. I honestly
I'd be surprised if it's not 10% um of
the jobs that exist now. I think um how
fast that happens and like the extent to
which those people find other jobs is
something which I don't think I have
seen compelling evidence for either way.

Um and we're and probably depends on how
fast various things go and exactly what
jobs are automated. I think that 10%
over the next 10% of current jobs seems
like a pretty reasonable uh lower it's
not quite my lower bound but you know a
pretty reasonable number over the next
decade of uh but this might not show up
in overall employment numbers. Yeah,
>> this is interesting. I mean definitely
like the kind of to the extent there is

a mainstream economics view of this
stuff it would probably be that
automation happens at the level of tasks
rather than occupations and occupations

can as a result you know go down quite a
bit but uh a lot of the time you're

automating these like similar tasks
across lots of jobs. I think this is
compatible with what you're saying. It's
just that some jobs get really hit by
it. I I don't know. I find it yeah quite
hard to think about. I'm not sure what
the even the historic base rate for kind
of jobs ceasing to exist is. I know
there are problems with this like the
historic employment data series. There
is actually quite a high I believe base
rate of just the tasks in a job changing
uh jobs themselves changing jobs kind of
going away coming in. So yeah, even this

5% thing, I don't know what to think.
Yeah, that would be like a big effect or
kind of Yeah, that's actually roughly
the size of effect you've already seen
from something like software. I don't
know.
>> Yeah, I I probably 5% of jobs that
existed before software no longer
exists. Uh it seems pretty reasonable.
Um I but I'm not confident of this. It's

definitely something which like I don't
know. I expect especially if revenue
trends continue I expect to know a lot
more about this in a couple in a year or
two um probably within the next year

because it will just be the case that
okay we'll have AI earning enough to

substant to be like a substantial part
of the economy if it's not showing up in
unemployment then we've learned
something about what it's doing we've
learned that like it's able to do this
without showing up in unemployment
numbers or maybe it will show up in
unemployment numbers and we'll see
exactly what there's been like some
early work looking at like uh indicators
of this. There's a lot of things that
complicate looking into this. Um

because interest rates also have effects
on like the sort of things you might
care about or just like normal churn or
also it's possible that tech companies,
you know, maybe they'll lay off a bunch
of programmers so that they have the
capital to build data centers. And are
those programmers being laid off because
of AI? I I don't know.

If you had a a kid that was a freshman
in college and they were asking, hey,
you know, what should I major in if I
want to have a great career? You know,
what might you tell them? And if they
asked you about, you know, computer
science or math or, you know,
>> promp engineer.
>> Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. What would you say?

>> Uh, I mean, I'd probably say not prompt

prompt engineer. I think in general
people get better at using uh
AI is very easy to use. Uh,

yeah. Yeah, I I I think it's a good
question. I think they should probably
major in something where if they're
majoring in programming, the thing that
they should be or computer science, the
thing that they should be looking for is
not being a person who's going to like
like the skills that are going to be
useful are not going to be knowing a
programming language. It's going to be
more general purpose skills, um ability

to like work with other people, um
## Computer use breakthroughs and real-world utility (24:27–28:06)
communication skills, this sort of
thing. I don't really know entirely if
this points to a particular major. Um,
most majors are probably not majors that
are like actually relevant for your job.
>> Yeah, I guess I'd sort of be like, well,

there's not too much that you can do to
plan around the super crazy futures. So,
I guess go for something that you're
passionate about that's useful in the
worlds, but don't go crazy in that way.
I actually think that yeah, computer
science, maths, if you're passionate
about them, they're very good because
you'll learn interesting things that are
valuable in many worlds. Um, but I don't

know, I gave advice to a younger
relative recently and they chose to
study drama instead. So

>> I do think that you know one of the
things that if you have a better time in
college that's like four years of your
life you had a better time during and at
the end of the day like you know if you
if it's uh you have it's a crapshoot
which of those things is actually going
to give you a better time in the future.
You planning for the present is a lot
easier.
>> Yeah. I mean it's definitely becoming
really hard to to know right. And I
remember like the the problem engineer
was obviously a joke because everyone
believed two years ago that that was
sort of some sort of viable thing and
obviously models are phenomenally better
at like just being great prompters. Uh

so obviously like that's kind of like
one thing that has been happening is
really hard to predict what's what's
happening as these models keep getting
keep getting better. One one question
that I have related to this is obviously
code is such a big market and it has had
such a big impact. one that I'm very
excited about but it's still much
earlier I think is computer use right
it's basically automating all the
digital tasks that you're doing on your
computer uh and there's very few
benchmarks around this like whether it's
web arena or world and you talk a little
bit on your report about benchmarks
curious on like what do you think is
missing in that space like why we
haven't seen yet that moment where the

moment for example when sonnet 3.5 came
out or or cloud code or codeex where we
saw significant improvement on coding In
general, we haven't had that moment for
computer use. What do you think is
missing there?
>> Interesting. I mean, there have been
improvements on computer use for sure. I

do have I mean, this maybe I'm going out
on a limb here slightly, but also I do
think that there is a sense in which
models are a little bit artificially
hobbled by um their vision capabilities.

Like it does seem as if a common pattern
you see when you try to get models to do
stuff with a gooey is they kind of get a
bit confused about manipulating it and
and you know in a way where it's like
okay this is interacting with your
general propensity to get infused in
long as you would in like difficult long
coding problems but it's kind of
exacerbated cuz like you're not able to
just easily look back on the thing and
see kind of h I was wrong. you instead
go down like some awful dead end of just
I'm just going to click this again and
again and again. Um, so I think that's

part of it. I think there is something
here or so probably about kind of long
context coherence stuff like those

tokens to represent the guey are pretty
big and then you're filling up your
context window as you go with like oh
yeah well I had all of this stuff that's
happened before and you seem to just run
into a kind of spiral of increasingly
less sensible outputs. So I feel like
these are two of the big things but I
don't know if that answers your
question.
>> I I found computer use
I know this was the first year I found
computer use actually useful. I we use
## GDP growth forecasts: from 1% to 30% scenarios (28:06–35:00)
ChachiPT agent in our uh data center
research because a lot of what we have
to do is find permits which are all
going to be on janky county bycounty

databases of error permits for you know
the county that Abalene Texas is in. Um

and I don't know what databases exist

for every county in the US. uh chatgpt

does normal chatpt can't search them

because it's these you know these actual

user interfaces you can't just search
them with you know URLs uh because they

definitely don't work that well um and
it's able to navigate this such that I
can just ask it to find me permits on a
data center in a particular city and it
will come back with air pollution
permits and like tax abatement documents
and all of this stuff that let me learn
a huge amount. Um, and this is just like

because of the improvements we've seen
in computer use over the past year or
so. Um, I'm excited to Yeah, I think

it's just just going to get better from
there, but I've definitely found it
starting to get to the point where it's
actually useful.
>> What's your mental model more broadly
for what is going to happen to uh

productivity or or or just sort of e
econom uh economy statistics in general?
Are you some people say GDP growth would
be you know 5%. And I think it's a Tyler
Cowan view. I think some people would
say, "No, no, we should get up to 10%
growth or or maybe even higher if we
truly um have have AGI in terms of how
we understand it." What's your model of
what happens to the productivity? I
think my kind of baseline guessing would

be, you know, I forecast out kind of if

revenue keeps growing the way it has in

theory for it to be worth spending that
much on that, you know, those chips to
do that inference, you should be getting
something kind of similar to that value
out of those chips by then. So then you
could just draw from that kind of like
oh okay so extrapolating to 2030 you
need and I think for there it was in the

report I don't know I calculated but I
think it was on the order of like a
percent kind of GDP increase that's in a
few years right that's not presuming AGI
that's presuming like if Nvidia stock
not stock revenues keep like growing as
they sort of previously have and you
assume that they make roughly as much
compute from it as before and so on. Um,

if you actually get something I mean AGI
is like, yeah, people use it to be
emptying different things. I think if
you actually get something that can do
>> any tasks that humans can do remotely,

then presumably you see a lot of growth.

It feels sort of difficult to guess

exactly what kind of a lag you're going
to see. I think there's reasons to
think, oh well, maybe people will be
slow to adopt stuff. How do they learn
to trust it? whatever. There's other
reasons to think, well, they're already
using these technologies. A lot of it
might actually be quicker than most
growth. And indeed, adoption's been
quicker for LMS than for many previous
technologies.
Um,
so yeah, I think it sort of gets hard at
that point to model. At some point on
our site, we had some rough numbers
where it was stuff like what if you, you
know, doubled the virtual labor force,
what if you 10 times it, whatever. Then
you see these like crazy GDP boosts. Um,

I don't know whether that's the most
reasonable way to think about it. I sort
of I think a lot of it comes down to
whether you imagine that like yeah, you
really get something that can do
everything versus you get something
first but can do a meaningful fraction
of remote tasks but maybe can't do like
an entire bucket of them and then it
bottlenecks you more. So I guess it's
again this thing of like my best guess

on current trends is this fairly well-

definfined you know few percent of GDP
in 2030 thing which is already pretty
crazy by economic standards. Uh but then

once you go much further it's like god
you know my predictions are just going
to be even crazier. I I'm reluctant to
make them.
>> I am going to be slightly less
reluctant. um and make some claims.
That's what we're here for.
>> Assuming in the next 10 years we get AI
that is capable of doing any remote job
as well as any human. Uh I think you
know 30% GDP growth seems like a lower

bound on something that's reasonable.
Assuming you get this is a big
assumption that a lot of people are
going to that you know it's there's a
lot going on in that assumption but uh
assuming that happens I think you either
are going to get like 30% GDP growth or
you know negative 100% GDP growth
because everyone's dead. Uh it's just
like, you know, uh it it just like at

the end of the day, it seems like you're
going to have AI that can scale, but if
you have AI that can scale there, you
could probably have AI that scales even
further. And right now, I think the like

economic models I have seen of what
happens if you get this sort of full
replacement, you can automate a job. um

are you know either show this sort of in

extremely fast wild takeoff or with a

couple of or um you know you have some
people attempting to do this who then
say and then you like look down through
paragraphs and it's like assuming
current levels of assuming AI is as
capable as GPT3. Um, you know, I I think

the the smaller numbers just like, you
know, they're they're nearer they're
either nearer-term predictions or
predictions that aren't looking at like
the full the the more the upper end of

what sort of capabilities you might see
in the next 10 years.
>> Yeah. I mean, it does seem hard to
imagine a world where you have this
supply of virtual labor that literally
can do any stuff that humans can do and
then it doesn't lead to crazy things. I
definitely agree with that. I guess
perhaps maybe some sort of a I don't
know a heavy regulation situation but
>> there are they do yeah
>> I think there exist worlds in which
things don't go crazy after that it does
seem like those worlds are not in an
indefinite stable state uh but you know

it's not impossible but it does seem
like the default there is
you either go crazy up or you either go
crazy down and it's probably going to be
one of those two if you get to a world
where it's like genuinely AI can do any
job as well as any human. I think people
I don't know it seems wild to me to
claim that you know given that your
default case should be you know not
super ridiculous changes. It just like

that's a lot of things that your AI can
do right there and that's like yeah it
just like seems like it should have
fundamentally changed the economy in one
direction or another. My intuition is a
lot of the disagreement. I mean,
probably some of it does come down to
sort of cashed beliefs people already
have, but I do also think some of it is
that when people talk about like, oh
yeah, AGI, AI that can do a remote job,
## What comes after current benchmarks are solved (35:00–37:16)
whatever. Even though we feel like we're
talking about the same thing, maybe
sometimes we're not. I' I don't know.
I've certainly had examples of
conversations where it's like, yeah, AI
can that can do any remote job. And then
they discuss stuff that it can't do. and
the stuff that it can't do. It's like
well no like that's that's also a remote
job. Like that's the kind of thing
people currently do. So I think there is
some of this.
>> What do you think like I mean you talk
about benchmarks on your report but I I
wonder like 2027 2028 what are going to

be the right benchmarks to measuring the
progress more than the economic growth
more the capabilities on the model like
intelligence on the model like we we had
in 2012 Alex net obviously that that got
solved long ago. Uh but that was
probably not a measure of AGI by any any
means. Um do you think the same would
happen with the current benchmarks we
have? So so Sweden, MMLU,

um let's say we maxed out on those
benchmarks, what comes after that? How
would do do we measure that? Is it a
sort of like GDP growth with these
models? Is it sort of breakthroughs in
science? How do you think is the right
measure going forward? Yeah, I mean I

think most of what we have is likely to
be solved and indeed the examples you
gave are like pretty close already. Uh

like I don't know is basically solved.
Sweet bench is like possibly close
depends a bit on how ambiguous some of
the questions are. There's some details
but it's really getting there. Um I mean

I think some directions are obvious. you
kind of do similar things but harder and
a bit better and trying to make them a
bit more realistic and people are doing
this. There are harder software
benchmarks that people have made more of
an effort to try to curate and that
cover larger tasks for example.
[sighs and gasps] Um I think there's
also perhaps some question of kind of
budgets involved. I I do think there's
this kind of thing where like obviously
if you just burn money, it doesn't
intrinsically make the benchmark better,
but probably you are going to see
something where you're just going to
have to devote more resources on average
to them. Like if you're trying to prove
a sort of higher level of capabilities
to a higher standard of proof, probably
it's going to involve kind of more
effort in developing them. Uh I do also
think though you're going to see
## Timeline for AI solving major math problems (37:16–46:54)
examples of you know relatively small
kind of small numbers of things that are

just very impressive and these are also
a valuable signal like when you see LMS

being able to do things like oh yeah it
just uh refactored this entire code base

and it was really useful then this is

going to be useful and even if it's not
yet formalized into a benchmark if
you've seen it for yourself it's going
to be kind of useful for you as
evidence.
And then people are probably going to
make benchmarks that cover things like
this to try to systematize them.
>> I want to go back to our question on on
timelines and I want to ask you about a
few different uh sort of milestones and
get your perspective on on on on
timelines there. So so first is what
what is a rough timeline for a a major
unsolved math problem uh being solved
by?
>> Oh, I actually wondered yeah because you
had a few of these that you said for us
to look at. when you say that it solves
this I mean is this unassisted entirely
it's uh or is it kind of a news you know
report or someone tweets that hey like I
dumped this at GPT and it solved it and
what counts as major
>> um something that we would all agree uh
like a substantive uh you know version
of it not not a uh you know just a
anecdotal you know person describing it

>> but does it have to solve it on its own?
>> Yeah, let's go with that. Sure. Yes.
Honestly.
>> Oh yeah. Because I mean there's already
cases it seems of LMS being Yeah. like
people are debating a little bit but
mathematicians who seem trustworthy are
saying like wow I used this and it was
really helpful during my proof.
>> Yeah.
>> I would not be surprised if AI solves
like a major unsolved math problem like
the Roman hypothesis or similar in the
next 5 years. Um I'm not going to say
that like that's my you know median case
necessarily, but I definitely wouldn't
be that surprised. It's like

right now it doesn't look like math is
that hard for AI. Uh it just like some

things turn out to be hard and some
things don't. And math is just like one
of the domains where it's RL seems to
work pretty well and where it's most

other domains it's not at the point
where it's like useful to a full
professor to the same extent I think it
is for math all or getting very close to
for math. Um yeah, and at the end of and

also it's like very unclear to what
extent certain capabilities that it has
unusually well might actually turn out
to be very very useful. Like maybe it'll
turn out that there's like four papers
out there that it knows about that have
obscure results in them that when
combined solve some big conjecture which
is the sort of thing that it like might
be much more feasible to figure out with
AI um than for a human to figure out um

or something similar. There's a lot of
uncertainty here, but it just like does
not currently
seem like something that AI is actually
going to struggle with. People often
make claims about it being like this,
you know, intuitive deep thing that it
would mean that AI has achieved
something, some huge level of
intelligence for it to solve. I think in
practice, this is just like, you know,
making a piece of art. It turns out AI
could just do that before it could do a
lot of other before it can, you know,
remember things for more than a couple
of days or whatever. Um, yeah, it turns

out to be farther f farther down the
capabilities tree than people might have
guessed.
>> Yeah, I think I'm I'm also bullish

though. I do think that yeah, it's one
of those things where it's tricky and
you really probably do need to define it
quite well to get a good forecast on it
to hope to get a good forecast on it.
like I don't know we've had this
experience that with benchmarking
mathematics you know we got
mathematicians to come up with problems
that I think aren't as difficult as the
kind of problems you're talking about
but nevertheless they're like yeah if AI
could solve this it would be like a big
deal for AI progress it would mean
something to me and then AI has solved
them and usually their response has been
kind of like oh yeah that updates me a
bit although man when I look at it I
just realize like yeah you can kind of
brute force this you can kind of cheese
this you can get through uh and it's a
bit like oh okay I mean what if there's
a problem that for humans we consider
sort of oh this would be quite big and
then yeah I solved it ah well it solved
it whatever we sort of had this with
chess decades ago right like computers

solved chess very well and everyone was
thinking of this as the pinnacle of
reasoning and then they did and everyone
as a result kind of concluded like oh
well of course computers can do chess so
yeah I don't know I

I suspect that math is quite nice for AI

to do. I'm reluctant to go out and
assert like, oh yeah, definitely AI is
going to like solve some of the
Millennium Prize problems in the next
few years, but it would not at all
surprise me if it solves quite
impressive seeming things in the next
few years.
>> To to what about a breakthrough in
biology or or medicine?

And we've already seen some of that with
uh the what's it called? Um alpha alpha

fold. It a math seems unusually easy for

AI. I'm going to be honest. So to the
extent where I'm like a is it going to
do the same exact level of like oh it on
its own did this huge thing that seems
to be a much bigger stretch to me. Um,
it definitely seems plausible, but
there's a lot of other concerns there
where it needs to uh it needs to be able

to like actually do experiments and get
data and interact with the real world
for a lot of these um in a way that does
not need to happen at all for math. Um,
in particular for certain uh yeah, it's
just they in fact seem farther off. What

is what seems more plausible to me is
that we see like you know it become
ubiquitous that some tools that like of
using AI in some sort of aspect of like

biology or chemistry or something useful
like that that like certain aspects of
it are enhanced. It also is possible
that AI will you know make incredible

strides
without humans but it's it's harder.

>> Yeah. I think again it's a bit tricky
for where you draw the line. I mean, I
think you're not counting tools like
AlphaFold because if you were, then
probably you'd argue for that, right?
Like the the inventors co won the shed

Nobel Prize. Um, but yeah, I mean, I

guess there's kind of different
directions in biology. You could have AI
being able to predict quite, you know,
specific things like that. Or you could
have something that's more general
purpose, this so-called like
co-scientist or whatever they want to
call it approach where it's more about
like, oh, it was able to look through
the literature and have good ideas and
there's different extents of human
involvement.
There already seem to be some results
where impressive stuff is happening.
I've not vetted them enough to really
have a sense of like would this already
count as having satisfied
yeah the sort of level of impressiveness

you're looking for. I sort of assume

that finding things that end up being

meaningful will happen pretty soon if it
hasn't already happened. But then maybe
there's a question of kind of okay, but

is it doing as well as human researchers
actually like prioritizing the best few
ones to work on? Uh I think most of
these co-scientist results have probably
had pretty involved humans prioritizing
though again I've not looked enough to
say. La
>> lastly um how about for real super

intelligence for for your definition of
super intelligence? I have I have I I

think I am I I am on the record as

saying that the the median timeline I
discussed uh or the modal timeline sorry

uh I think it's modal yeah um which

might be on the early side compared to
where my median is um is you know 2045

was where when I did the podcast with
Himeme we discussed like our forecasting
breaking down and uh everything going
bananas um is the terminology I have

used um and that like looks like super
intelligence. Um
I you know um

I think that it's like the case that if
we get AI that can do every single job
uh that a human can do as well as any
human can do that job in the near future

then this is you know means that scaling

just works to get things much much
better and probably means that you are
not that many steps that you are just a
bit more scaling away from getting AI
that could do anything uh that humans uh

sorry two things vastly better than
humans. Um
yeah, it gets hard to predict and I

think as well it gets to be one of these
things where the predictions get a bit
unmed from the the stuff that you can
like properly model. Like my my sort of
you know guesses my like judgmental
forecasts to use the fancy term for just

kind of can do any remote work tasks

probably have a median of about like 20
25 years. Um, I kind of struggle to

imagine a world where that happens and

people are like deploying it and doing
research and yet they're not making
further progress to being able to do
stuff much better. So I guess I'd have
to be like not too much longer after
that for some definition of super
## Robotics as primarily a hardware problem (46:54–50:06)
intelligence. But yeah, all very
uncertain and yeah, it seems to break

down a bit. You you talk a lot about the
progress in data centers, benchmarks,
biology and there was one interesting
part that I noticed just in the field
that is robotics is making a lot of
progress with let's say world models and
like the physical space a little bit
curious on like um what is your take
here like what do you think it's uh it
seems like a lot of the problems in
robotics can be solved purely with
imitation learning you might not need
like a lot of sort of like breakthroughs
in math or whatever like you can just
basically learn it from a lot of data
and I think in the last couple of years
has being remarkable just in in robotics
and world models overall. Curious on
your take a little on this and if you
did some kind of research in the space.
>> So we've looked into what sort of uh

amount of compute is actually being used
to like do these training runs. Um and

what we found is that like computer it
the training runs that are being used
for robotics are like a 100 times
smaller than the training runs that are
being used for uh than the training runs

that are being used for like frontier
models. And so there's a lot of scaling
you can do there. I don't think that
until plausibly until very very recently
there have been serious attempts to
gather data for robotics at a massive
scale. Well, it's just a case that you
could hire a bunch of people to move
around in motion capture suits if you
need to. And there have been a lot of
attempts to do that, although I think
this might be changing. Um, I think of
robotics as mostly a hardware problem.
Um, a hardware and like economics
problem of yeah,
>> if you if it costs $100,000 to build a
robot, then, you know, it's not
necessarily better than a human who
could work for $20,000 a year uh or a

very cheap human um in certain countries
uh or something. uh sorry a the like

sort of minimum wage in some countries
uh that you might be able to afford
labor for. Um it's just not obvious to

me that there is a software problem
here. Um the hardware it it does seem
like
unclear. It's it's very unclear to me
how much of a hardware problem is left.
In particular, there's certain tasks
which robots might be able to do, but
are they actually the tasks that you
care about a robot being able to do? If
you want your robot to be able to like
nimily walk around while lifting up
heavy things and moving fast and react,
then that's that's hard. That's a
hardware problem that I don't think
we've seen solutions for yet.
>> Yeah, I think my impression roughly
matches this. It's sort of I don't know.

People fairly often talk about this
distinction between remote work and
physical work. I think because there's
this perception of robotics progress
lagging behind a bit and there even is

some intuition that maybe maybe this

physical manipulation stuff is actually
just harder but I wouldn't conclude that

with much certainty like Y has said it
feels like you'd kind of also want to
see well okay what what happens if it
gets scaled up in a similar way to even
get a sense of like oh okay was it
actually harder versus was it just depp
prioritized.
>> Is there is there anything we didn't get
## Data center infrastructure reality vs hype (50:06–58:50)
to that you feel is important that we uh
leave our audience with?
>> We did discuss uh the data centers
release you just did. I'm not sure if
there's a good way to leave the audience
with that.
>> Yeah, let's get into it. Okay. So, you
guys just did a you release a project.
Why don't you talk a little bit about
what you were trying to achieve there
and what you hope people take from it.
>> Yeah. So, we took uh uh 13 of the

largest data centers we can find. Um
these includes se a few from each of the
major labs in the US. Um and we found
permits. We took satellite images
including new satellite images of all
these data centers. We figured out how
to determine how much compute is in them
based off the cooling infrastructure
that they're building as well as when
they're coming online and their future
timelines. So we understand this like
real world data and it's all available
um online on our website for free. um

this like to give insight into this
giant infrastructure buildout that's
happening and the pace of it. Um there's
some things about it that surprise me a
lot. For instance, we learned that the
most likely candidate to have the first
gigawatt scale data center is anthropic
which would not have been my pick. Um
but Anthropic Amazon's new carile
project reineer development seems on
track to come online in January. Um
followed shortly thereafter by Colossus
2. Um, we also learned a lot about what

the largest concrete plans are rather
than just like marketing plans. Some
people will throw around numbers, but
the one we found that's actually
seriously underway and has permits and
is, you know, setting up the electrical
infrastructure for is one by Microsoft
which is going to be used by OpenAI at
least in part um in Mount Pleasant. Um,

they're calling it Microsoft Fairwater.
Um, and that one's going to be uh use a

size use not quite as much power as New
York City, but I think more than half
the what's stopping us from
significantly increasing the the the the

cluster is is it the um is it is it
cost? Is it supply lead times? Is are
there any other engineering
breakthroughs required? power.
>> I think that people are approximately
uh wrong that there's something stopping
us and we are scaling up as fast as
there is money to scale up
approximately. Uh I suppose they could

want there to be all of the clusters
literally today, but they're scaling up
really quite fast. you're seeing these
data centers which are using uh I think

the one I mentioned for Anthropic Amazon
is using about as much power nearly as
much power as the state capital of Ind
of Indiana which is where it's located.
Um and the timelines on some of these uh

like the Colossus 2 uh are you know 2

years or less which is just an insane
thing to build this thing that's using
as much power as a city. Um, I think
that plausibly, you know, you don't want
to buy chips now. You want to wait for
there to be better chips. Uh, I I think

that people
think of there's a lot of noise about
things being difficult and scaling up.
And I think this is because people are
having to spend a little bit more than
they would ordinarily have to spend. You
can't use the ordinary sort of power
pipeline which is designed to deliver
this affordable infrastructure um at a
slow pace. you have to, you know, buy
things that you wouldn't ordinarily have
to buy and spend more than you would
ordinarily have to spend, but not buy
enough to slow it down. All of these
things pale in comparison to the cost of
your GPUs.
Uh, so my actual takeaway from a lot of
this has been, oh,
we're
not having too much trouble scaling up.
But just like these plans are going
really quite fast and it's not obvious
that people would actually have the
finances and desire to do them faster.

>> When when people are talking about
energy as a as a as a a major potential

bottleneck or having to, you know,
increase our capabilities significantly,
you're you're not worried that that's
going to be a sort of durable
sustainable bottleneck. that that's not
>> I think people like complaining because
they can't just use the traditional plug
into the grid for cheap affordable power
um four years down the line pipeline. At
the end of the day the day there are
expensive
uh
technologies that exist right now. You
could pay for solar power plus
batteries. This is fairly small lead
times. It might cost twice as much as
normal power, but that's still way less
than your GPU. So you're going to do it
if you have to. And you see people doing
these sort of emergency things that cost
them a bit more. You know, starting up
their data centers. A common thing we
see is people starting their data
centers before their data centers are
connected to the grid. Um I think Abene
was an example. XAI Colossus 1 is a
prominent example of just finding ways

around this that are expensive and you
complain about it because you know it
would be nice if you could do the
cheaper way and no one's used to having
to do it this expensive way.
At the end of the day though, it's just
like does not there seem to be enough
solutions, especially if you are as
willing to pay as you as people are in
AI that I don't really expect it to be a
significant bottleneck.
Maybe let's close with this. If if if
these systems get as powerful as we're
as we're discussing as we're discussing,
I'm curious to h how the sort of
political system is going to respond.
I'm curious if you're sympathetic to the
Ashen Brener view that that um there's
some potential nationalization that that
that occurs. Um but but in general, how
do you expect governments to to to
respond? It's kind of remarkable of how
um not in the political discourse uh it

is given how how powerful it is already.
I'm curious how you think about that.
>> I expect so the thing I calling back to
what I mentioned earlier, this concept
of you know the potential for 5%
unemployment increase in like six
months. I think that the public's
reaction to this will determine a lot.
There will be very very strong feelings
about AI once this happens. I think
there will be a bunch of, you know, a
very strong consensus on what to do. I
on things that we don't normally think
of as things that people are
considering. I know when this happened
with COVID, there was a several trillion
dollar stimulus package passed at like,
you know, in a matter of weeks to days,
it was break neck speed. Um, I don't

know what that will look like for AI,
but I think it's like everything else in

AI. It's like, you know, exponential,
which means it will pass the point of,
you know, people sort of care about it
to people really care about it quite
fast if things keep going. Um, I I just

don't know where we're going to end up.
I just expect you know wherever we end
up there will be it will look like oh
everyone suddenly agrees that why that's
that's to do this certain thing which we
would have considered unimaginable a
year ago and I I don't know what that
will look like it might look like
nationalization it might look like
pausing um it might look like I don't

know going faster uh guaranteeing better

unemployment benefits who knows I I I I
just think there's going to be some sort
of like strong response of some sort and

it's going to been very fast.
>> Yeah. I mean, you know, you make the
point that governments are maybe less
interested than you'd expect now, but I
mean, the current impacts, I think,
aren't really that large. I feel like
the attention is getting larger, but
it's not that AI as of right now is that

powerful. And yet, governments are
already talking about it a lot, right?
and you have people meeting with heads
of state uh from various hardware
manufacturers and AI companies and like
countries talking about their AI
strategy stuff like this. So I feel
clearly country national governments are

going to be quite involved. It's just a
question of how and yeah I also am a bit
unclear on that. I think that right now
we've seen this thing in revenue and
finances where it's been doubling or
tripling every year and my default

assumption is that attention that AI
gets from policy makers and governments
is going to follow a similar trend where
it will double and triple every year. Um
this means that in the future there
could if trends continue there will be a
huge amount of attention and it means
that right now there's a lot more
attention than last year but you don't
suddenly skip from very little attention
to all of the attention. Uh although you

do move quite we are moving I think
quite fast.
>> I uh I think we made enough predictions
that we'll have to have you back next
year and uh at the end of the year check
in and see where we're at and then make
make it for next year. Um yeah David
thank you so much for coming to the
podcast.
>> Thank you. Thank you. too.
>> Thanks so much for having us.

>>