## Introduction (0:00–0:44)
Brian Johnson wants to break the chains
of biology. I want to break the chains
of time. We can always raise another
round or do another trade, but you can't
raise another decade.
>> You're running a massive company. You
also do investing. You're also a happy
marriage with four kids. I know the way
that you do it all is delegation. What
is the secret that you've figured out?
>> Cardinal sin of delegation is that it
will be faster or better to do it
myself. And the reason it's a blocker is
cuz it's true. But the only way you get
leverage is by going through that work.
A couple decades ago, you had to be Mark
and Dreston urban Kosla to have a half
dozen assistants and that cost you half
a million dollars. Now with a company
like Athena for 3,000 bucks a month, you
can have your own assistant.
>> What have you learned in your extensive
founder career?
## The power of delegation: from the White House to Thumbtack (0:44–2:13)
>> Jonathan, welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So Jonathan, you're running a massive
company. What 4,000 employees?

>> 4,000
>> 4,000 employees. You also do investing.
You're also in a, you know, happy
marriage with with four kids. How do you
do it all? I know the way that you do it
all is delegation. You have a chief of
staff, a bunch of EAs. Why don't you

talk about what is the secret that
you've figured out that other people can
learn from?
>> Yeah. So, my origin story here is out of

school, I worked at the White House and
uh I sat I sat in the West Wing next to
the president's executive assistants.
And as you might imagine, the EAs in the
West Wing were really freaking good. And
it set my bar super high for what this
EA client partnership could look like.
And when I moved to San Francisco to
start a Thumbtac, I said, "Okay, I'm not
president, but what if I had a EA and

support team that was as good as the
presence? Like, what could I
accomplish?" And so at Thumbtac, as we
were scaling the business, I hired my
first assistant in the Philippines
started helping me with basic stuff,
inbox, calendar, uh, and then we just
got creative and we did more and more
complex, interesting things, which we
can talk about. And what I found was the
more leverage I got, the more ambition I
got and it just compounded. And, you

know, you started with one assistant,
now I've got a half dozen and every
assistant gives me more leverage to take
on more things. It's fascinating because
## Human vs. AI assistants: the future of delegation (2:13–4:30)
I some people say, "Hey, you know, Bill
Gates is so much richer than me, but he
has the same phone that I have." Or I
remember um maybe it was you, maybe
someone else who was like, "Wait, Obama
should have, you know, or the president
should have way better information than
me, and yet they're like reading
political like they're reading the same
media." And this is like another example
of it, which is the democratization
where White House have amazing
assistance, but thanks to Athena, you
know, and and you know, technology, at
some point, everyone will have a certain
block.
>> Exactly. that you know a couple decades
ago you had to be Mark Andre and Urban
Kosva to have a half dozen assistants

and that cost you half a million
dollars. Now with a company like Athena
for 3,000 bucks a month you can have
your own assistant and then with AI yeah
it's going to become ubiquitous. People
are there's going to be billions of
people learning to delegate to a machine
assistant and as your budget increases
you might add a human or a chief of
staff on top but it's just kind of a
ladder of leverage. How should we think
about what are the things that humans
can do versus what are the things that
AI can do? You know, remember my friend
started CL um you know a decade ago
which is trying to be AI assistance
effectively. Obviously this is well
before a lot of the innovation but what
is the right way of thinking about sort
of the human AI you know relationship.
>> Yeah I mean it's a moving target
obviously is going to get increasingly
more capable and our view is it's like
self-driving cars where it's not
self-driving overnight. It's you drive
the Tesla at first and then there's
assisted steering and braking and then
over time it becomes more autonomous.
And the same thing is going to happen
with assistants. My my view here for

founders is if you don't have an
assistant, you are the assistant and you
don't want to be the assistant. And so
no matter your budget, you should first
start by learning to delegate. Uh and if
you only got 20 bucks a month, you start
by delegating to chat GPT. And prompt

engineering is really just delegating.
And if you become world class at
leveraging Chat GPT to brainstorm your
goals, figure out how uh you can take
the next step in the business, once you
have the budget for a human assistant or
chief of staff, then you're prepared to
go that next level. So you start 20
bucks a month. Um if you have budget,
then you hire someone direct with a
service like Athena. If you have enough
money, you hire someone in person.
That's six figures, you know. And if
you're uh legendary budget, then you've
got a suite of assistants and chief of
staff following you around. Yeah.
## Levels of delegation: from tasks to algorithms (4:30–6:31)
>> So, I've had an for many years now and

and she's absolutely amazing and um you
know I use her for scheduling and u you
know typical assistant activities but

you have many assistants you know our
friend Sam Corkos has a bunch of
assistants as well
>> close the gap between what do the people
who do it well like you know what else
do people get leverage on or delegate
that maybe is not obvious.
>> So first you start by taking the pain
off of your life. So you I never wait on
hold. I never put my credit card in the
internet. I would never fill out DMV
forms, never do passport renewal. The
world is full of all these annoyances.
And so first you take off these things
that drain you that don't give you
leverage. Then once you've done that,
then the next thing is you raise your
sights and you're like, what's a new
business I could start? How can I scale
my business faster? Uh how can I spend
more time with my family? What are the
things uh I actually care to do a lot
more of? Yeah. Um, and so I start with
basic stuff, inbox, calendar, stuff that
everyone does, but then I just start
experimenting. And so, you know, during
the scaleup days of Thumbtac, when we're
in a house working all the time, I told
Marne, my assistant, I don't really have
any friends outside of work. I was like,
the only people I know are in this
building. I need to make some friends.
And so, I told her, let's plan a a
founder dinner at my house every other
week. And we did lots of this together
back in the day. And that's how I made
all my best friends. And I just walked
home from work and Marne had invited
people, set up the the chef and the
bartender and we walk in and we make new
friends and you know I met Catherine, my
wife through that and then Marty's
helping plan our wedding and now Mary
helps us with our kids and so you know
it starts small and then you just kind
of compound these things.
>> Yeah. But even in that example um like
say more about how did she know who to
reach out to or what kind of Yeah.
>> Yeah. So the kind of entrylevel

delegation is you delegate by task. you
say, "Help me plan this dinner party."
If you just say that, you're not going
to get what you want. Um, the more
advanced way to delegate is called
## Principles of effective delegation (6:31–7:50)
delegate by algorithm, where you
actually export your own internal
preferences as you delegate. So, I would
say, "Hey, when I plan dinner parties, I
like to have six to eight people. I like
people to have raised similar amounts of
capital or be at similar stages or
similar number of employees." And
literally write an algorithm for how you
find the right people. Um and then you
get feedback on whether it worked or
not. And once the algorithm is fully
exported from your head, then it's just
rinse and repeat. And so you know
engineers tend to be better at creating
these kind of like SOPs or standard
practices. But it's something yeah you
can learn to do.
>> Yeah. And so share more about what how

you for people have multiple systems or
how do you differentiate like how do you
you know sort of delegate across the
team?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean start with one uh and
then like any team you specialize and so
>> I just had one that did everything as a
generalist and now half dozen which I
know sounds crazy but each one
specialized in different things. One is
on work, one is on home, one is on kids,
family, travel, uh finances.
>> Um
>> and uh that specialization is helpful
because the finance person is just
thinking about balance sheet, uh you
know, sending wires, all of that sort of
stuff. And then I have a chief of staff
who sits on top who distributes work
## Delegation & productivity hacks (7:50–9:46)
>> across all of them.
>> What are other principles like, you
know, I love this delegate bio
algorithm, not not by task. What are
other principles or frameworks that are
really important or non-obvious to, you
know, get the most out of an assistant?
>> Yeah, the the cardinal sin of delegation

is that it will be faster or better to
do it myself.
>> That's the number one blocker for most
people. And the reason it's a blocker is
cuz it's true.
>> It will actually be faster or better if
you do it yourself that first time. And
it takes more effort to delegate to
teach someone how to do it. It might not
be as fast or as good as you'd like it,
but the only way you get leverage is by
going through that work. So, you have to
overcome that activation energy. The
second mistake people make is they don't
compound for the long term and they hire
someone and then switch an assistant
every 6 12 months. But it's the
compounding that creates incredible
leverage. I've been working with Marne
for a decade, like a little sister now,
and she knows everything about me. Um,
so that's just kind of like common
principles. Um, in terms of the way to
delegate, I think the this is just
tactical the methods. You know, the most
common way people delegate is with your
thumbs on your phone. That's the worst
way. Very slow. Um, better to use all 10

fingers at a computer, but that's
actually pretty slow as well. The best
way to really delegate is using your
voice. And so voice, you can talk two to
three times faster. You can do it on the
go. You can do it on a date between
lunch, you know, in the Uber. Um, you
know, at Thumbtac during hypers scale
times, I would walk between meetings and
between a meeting, I would be voice
noting to an assistant, here's the
takeaways, pre-draft these five emails,
uh, follow up with this person. And all
my work from that meeting was actually
delegated by the time I started the next
meeting versus everything kind of
accumulating and then you get to the end
of the day and you're like,
>> I have 100 things to do. And so learning
to delegate by voice, if you look at all
the super delegators at Athena, they are

all just delegating by voice all day
long,
>> right?
## The future: machine-generated delegation (9:46–11:36)
>> Yeah, it's fascinating. Well, at some
point it's going to be, you know, not I
don't even have to say it, I just think
it.
>> Yeah,
>> this is uh this is part of our vision uh
Athena longer term
>> is you shouldn't have to actually
vocalize it.
>> No.
>> And we've built an internal demo of
this. It's it uh it's not live. uh for

customers. But the way it works is we

build something that watches your screen
as you work and it screenshots the
screen and when it identifies things
that you should be delegating to your
assistant, it automatically adds it to
your assistant's task list. Your
assistant then says, "Oh, Eric would
want my help with this or maybe he'll do
this on his own." And that creates the
reinforcement learning effectively to
tune the model to pull things off of
your screen. You don't have to vocalize.
And so the person who built this
internally, he's been using it. The
majority of his delegations are now
machine generated.
>> Yeah,
>> he's not talking. He's just working and
the machine is magically pulling tasks
and putting on his assistance plate. Uh
it'll take a while to bring that to
market and fruition, but that's the
that's the future. There should also be
relatedly there should also be a version
where it's like you know you see in
Slack that's you know it's someone's
birthday or someone has a baby or
something and it suggests hey do you
want to yep you know get this person
this this specific gift or something.
Yeah, I think this is a place where
we're thinking a lot about the human
machine merger and how we get the best
of both. And that's really the vision
Athena is like the best human assistant,
the best AI wrapped into one combined uh

product that's seamless. And humans off
obviously have human touch and good UX.

Uh but what machines can do is remember
everything and be super proactive. who

can look through every email, every
calendar and remind you to do things
that you would not have thought to do
otherwise.
>> One thing you've always been fascinated
## Global talent & leveraging international teams (11:36–12:33)
about is sort of um international labor

some call, you know, labor arbitrage.
>> What is the right way of thinking about
what people in say the Philippines um
can do or can't do verse, you know,
assistance in the US? Like how do people
because obviously there's a huge cost
savings. Um what what are stuff that you

keep in that cost savings or stuff that
you don't keep or like what's the right
way of thinking?
>> Yeah, I mean America's strength is
entrepreneurship, capital, innovation,
technology and um the more you can

leverage someone to do back office
tasks, the more you can spend on
technology, product, etc. So, you know,
I think the the thing Athena focuses on
is executive assistant, someone who can
do all of this admin. Um but people uh

are using global talent for all sorts of
things for legal, medical, um all the
above.
>> Yeah. So let's get a little bit on the
## Assistants and financial leverage (12:33–13:45)
finance thing. I'm curious because I I
don't leverage mine there. What are the
ways that people could get leverage from
this because are you are you still
interfacing with with the accountants or
are they do Yeah. What is the right way
of thinking about?
>> Yeah. So I the first thing I'd recommend
if uh you're getting an assistant uh is
to have them help you save money. Uh if
you have a big budget, not a big deal,
but the first project can be, hey, help

pay for your salary by looking through
all my subscriptions, finding things to
say, save me money, find me refunds. Um
so that's just kind of like a
cost-saving bucket. Um then there's
admin paying bills. Um and then there's
coordination, which is what you're
talking about, basically being a PM. So
coordinating, you know, the tax attorney
asks for something from the accountant,
and there's a bunch of docs, and it's
just moving paperwork between Yeah. uh
systems um at enough scale and
complexity that becomes effectively a
full-time job. And obviously you need
someone you truly trust uh to go deep
with and we kind of recommend that you
build this trust over time and you know
you give email and calendar access at
first and bank account later. Uh but as

you earn that trust then the more access
you give effectively the more leverage
you get.
>> Yeah. the um yes it's really interesting
and and in terms of um say more about
## Company culture across borders (13:45–15:18)
what it's been like to scale this
company where you have and you know you
dealt with this thumb thumb too a little
bit in terms of just work forces in
different areas and how you think about
culture between them and um yeah kind of

what are the the challenges or what's
really important to get right
>> yeah um yeah I mean we we look for

cultures that have a strong affinity uh
to American culture Uh, you know,
Philippines has a long history with
America. They like know American pop
culture and sports better than I do.
>> Um, and then they have a very strong

work ethic and u, it's a caretaking um,

culture. So, there's lots of nurses and
one of the reasons we picked it for
assistance is being an executive
assistant is really taking care of
someone. It's like their full-time job

is to make your life better, is to take
things off your plate, to help you be
successful. And I think one of the uh

barriers for some people to get an
assistant is it feels indulgent. It's

like, do I should I really have someone
who's just taking care of me? Um, but
the way I flip that around is you not
delegating and you not giving leverage
is holding you back, but it's actually
preventing you from creating a job for
someone who's excited to help you. Yeah.
>> And for the people on our team, like
they get to work with a CEO, they get to
see behind this exciting startup that um
is a totally different life than they
live. And for them, that is a cool,
exciting, life-changing thing.
>> Yeah. One thing that I think people
## Assistants as accountability partners (15:18–16:52)
should be using assistance more for is
uh is not only delegation but also
accountability of like hey you want to
be you know exercising this amount or
you want to be spending your time doing
XYZ or you want to make sure you you
know you go to your appointments or or
something. Oh, do we have some uh
clients who actually exercise live with
their assistants for this reason? Like
they both have a fitness goal and so
they pull up videos at a set time and
they work out together and that's the
place where human accountability is a
little more powerful than machine
accountability.
>> Chatpt actually has a feature now where
it will automatically ping you on
things. So if you can't afford
assistant, you just tell CatchPT, here's
my top five goals, ask me how I'm doing
every day, log my results, and give me
feedback. You can get that for 20 bucks
uh a month. Um I've done similar
versions of this with Human Assistant. I
think we may have done this in the past
where I'm like, "Hey, I want to work
out, meditate, eat clean,
>> send me a a ping on WhatsApp every day,
and I'll just reply yes, no, yes, no
whether I did it." And then at the end
of each week, send me a scorecard and
compare me to Eric or Katherine and we
can have a little competition with it.
>> And yeah, helping you helping you hit
your goals is exactly what they should
be doing. Yeah. And then the other thing
I think is uh an interesting opportunity
to get more leverage because these
people are also you know um not just

operation savvy but also you know pretty
you know uh intuitive you know they go
into caring fields and so there's also
like opportunities for coaching too or
like there you know they're the people
## Coaching, feedback, and the human element (16:52–18:30)
that have most context on you and they
can give feedback on how you're engaging
or like you know they can tell you hey
you're tired today you know. Yeah, the
>> that was my first observation uh when I
was in the West Wing. The assistants who
sat next to the president were insane.
They were so good. They went on to
become like elected to Congress and
amazing people.
>> Um but at the end of the day, the

president, his adviserss would have been
meeting with senators and all these
people and they would finish the
meeting, they would lean back and they
would have the assistant come over and
they' just be like, "What's going on?"
And it was it was more than just

accomplishing things. This was their
closest confidant who saw behind the
scenes on everything. They knew the good
and the bad. They know they'd gotten
kicked in the nuts a couple times that
day from different things.
>> And they're there for them. And I think
that human element is going to remain
important for a long time, no matter how
uh good AI gets. And it's something you
should lean into. We have uh clients who
tell us that yeah like going through a
divorce or a depression and like my
assistant's like there for me in a way
that others aren't and like I can't tell
my company or my team about some of
these things but it's this is the person

that's like on the inside with you.
>> Yeah, totally. Relatedly, one of the
things you've had really interesting
insights on over the years is um is how
to spend time. think about time
management not not only in terms of ways
to get more of it v via delegating but
also you know h how to prioritize and

you know I've I've learned this from
from you but you think about goals on a
sort of you know annual quarterly you
know like on different increments why
## Goal setting, time management, and prioritization (18:30–22:07)
don't you maybe we could start with LBD
and how you think about goal setting in
general and then we can you know bit
deeper
>> yeah I mean my wife Katherine and I who

uh we met as friends one of you know
developed this friendship over one of
these entrepreneurship dinners. We read
this book um called How You Measure Your

Life by Clayton Christensen and he
basically told the story of how Harvard
Business School professor kids come back
at reunions and they're Fortune 500
CEOs, super rich and their lives are in
shambles. They're divorced, have all
these problems, the kids don't talk to
them and going to jail. And he's like
the rigor they apply to their
businesses, the quarterly reviews, the
metrics were completely absent from
their life. And his point was, how do
you want to measure your life? And
Katherine and I read this book and we
were just friends at the time, but we're
both like, I want to be on your life
board directors. Let's freaking do that.
And so we just started tradition a
decade ago. Every quarter we get
together, we fill out a survey on our
relationship, uh strengths and
weaknesses, kind of squat analysis,
geeky stuff, and then we talk about like
what can we improve, uh what could we do
better, and like anything if you the
more you invest, the better it gets.
>> Totally. And yeah, I think that's a key
point because some people are turned off
by sort of like uh quantification like
they want their relationship placed like
you know, relax or turn off or
something. I think it's less that you
have to like, you know, quantify every

element of it and more just that you
want to prior you you don't want to let
the lack of quantification mean that
you're not prioritizing it. Um, and so
this is just an exercise to make sure
that you're actually just like keeping
accountable to how you want to be.
>> Exactly. It's uh be purposeful, get the
thing you want. If you're a geek like
us, then you measure it and you track
everything. Uh, and if you just want to

go have like a date and drink wine and
talk about your relationship, that works
too. I think it's just the people
prioritize fitness or their work, but

they never think about how do I
prioritize my relationship? Like what's
the what's the fitness or the workout or
the yoga equivalent for my relationship?

Having been in many goal setting
sessions with you, one of the things I
think that you intuitively understand or
have learned um and are often instilling
in others is this idea of um
prioritization. Like when people set
goals, they set a lot of goals and they
don't sort of think about, hey, what is
the one that makes everything else much
easier? Um and uh you know, what is the
one the one thing that if we did would
be a great year, a great quarter,
whatever it is.
>> Who sets too many goals?
>> You know, me a little bit. Uh but uh but

yeah.
>> Yeah. I think my view is there's a power
law in everything and power law in
business, power law in venture, power
law in your life. And there's typically
one thing every month or quarter that if
you accomplish is worth more than
everything else combined. And figuring
out what that one thing is uh is what

you should do. Figure that thing out and
then go all in on that. And not to say
that having other goals isn't
worthwhile, but if you haven't
identified the one thing and gone allin
to make that happen, then I think it's
not optimized. I think it's also easier
to kind of procrastinate on the most
important thing in your life by having a
a long list. Yeah.
>> And you do a bunch of different things,
but there's that one thing. It's find
your partner, it's start the business,
it's fix my health. That really is more
foundational than everything else.
>> So to that end, um I'm curious if you

could share more, you know, frameworks
## Frameworks for founders: time, energy, and meetings (22:07–25:06)
or principles you live by in terms of
time. Like for example, I I believe you
put you try to stack meetings in, you
know, in a day or in as few days as
possible or something. What are what are
certain sort of frameworks that are
important for you in terms of time,
energy, you know,
>> I mean high level is Brian Johnson wants
to break the chains of biology or
longevity. I want to break the chains of
time and you know the question I asked
myself is like
>> what's the most valuable asset in the
world? It's not gold or bitcoin or
nvidia clusters. It's time. Uh we can
always raise another round or do another
trade but you can't raise another
decade. And so if time is the primary
asset uh and it's more foundational than
everything else, we should focus on
owning that and controlling it. And so
for different this means different
things for different people. If you are
in hardcore
scale mode, that may mean halfhour
meetings for 14 hours a day where you
are just grinding out interviews and
doing things that only you can do as a
founder. uh or it may mean clearing your

schedule and having time to dream about
the future of the product or big deals.
And I think you just have to know what
stage of the business you're in
>> and then design your calendar
purposefully around that. And if you
look back on the last month and the
calendar does not reflect your highest
goals, then uh you're not doing it
right.
>> Yeah. I remember uh Keith Boy shared
with me this idea of like at the end of
every week do a calendar audit of the
past week like what are the meetings you
had that you wish you wouldn't have and
then just look at the next week.
>> I mean there's a place uh you know
Athena assistants can do this
proactively for you but there's a place
that AI is obviously going to automate
and it will be very powerful or it's at
the end of it each week it just tells
you here's what you prioritized those
actually your goals.
>> Yeah.
>> If not then next week we should adjust
those things.
>> Yeah. I'm curious for your
interpretation of meetings. Some people
are like uh you know I I want to have as
few meetings as possible. Me is not the
most efficient. I'd rather do everything
async. What what is your kind of
>> sort of thinking between async and
synchronous?
>> I mean Naval has a good line that's like

uh a phone call is better than a
meeting. A voice notes is better than a
call. A text is better than
>> a voice note. Uh I think in general
that's true. And uh there's this it's

almost like a generational thing where I
feel like you're in this a little bit of
like there's a reluctance to call people
on the phone and it's just we do
everything text and email but calling
people is super effective. It's really
high bandwidth. You can figure out
in 5 minutes. And so uh I personally try
to minimize meetings and then do more
picking up the phone and talking to
someone for five minutes. Um, when I'm
in more chairman mode, then I prioritize
as few meetings as possible and voice
notes and um I uh I what I request is

voice notes out and text message back
because read listening to voice notes is
slow.
>> It's assault as marketing.
Yeah. Um yeah it is interest you u one
## The efficient path vs. the effect path (25:06–27:19)
of my favorite self-help books is the
seven effective habits of how effective
people and one of their you know
principles maxims is this idea of like
efficiency with when it comes to
achieving uh you know tasks or
accomplishing tasks but effectiveness
when it comes to people and and so um
you know the efficient path might not be
the effective path because you might
>> you sort of save some time on the front
end but you might you know acrew sort of
a debt on the on the back end. Yeah. And
um yeah, it might be efficient to just

send a text or something, but you know,
keeping the dynamic. Yeah, phone calls
are obviously under underrated. And
>> yeah, that's true. Remote cultures, too.
Like remote cultures build up debt of
just the lack of bandwidth. And so if
you are in a remote culture, you should
get together every couple months for a
few days in person.
>> H how do you think about how when
founders are asking for advice like how
how should I spend time? Like what
what's most important? like what
frameworks are helpful for founders
about thinking about obviously there's a
million things they could be doing
there's not enough time in the day for
you know even a fraction of them what
are the most important ways to to get
right whether it's your time at
>> thumbtack look is build your product
customers raise capital build your team
and when founders ask me like how to
leverage an assistant what should I be
doing my the way I turn around is like
what's your top two goals for the month
if it's recruiting uh you have to be
closing candidates But you don't need to
be sourcing all of the emails. You could
pull up a voice note and say, "Here's a
template I want you to reach out to.
Here's let me go through my contacts.
Here's 20 people." Send an outreach
email asking them for suggestions for
this role. Uh, you know, if your goal is
to raise capital, your assistant could
help project manage the the process of
all of that. And so, you know, step one
is you set your goals and then you break
them down into subtasks. and your
assistant won't be able to run the fund
raise but can run components of it and
your job is just to decompose things
into the smallest part that you can hand
off.
>> Maybe you should have some sort of like
forward deployed uh you know sort of
thing of what's it's not just the
assistant but it's also someone that
helps you like really get the most
leverage out of it and watches you know
your your activity. One of our learnings
from this business when we first started
## Executive hiring: principles and pitfalls (27:19–29:19)
it, we were like, we're just going to
hire the best assistants, match them
with clients, and boom, amazing. But we
matched the first five assistants, and
every single client said the same thing.
How do I delegate calendar? How do I
delegate inbox? And so it became clear
we need to invest more in actually
teaching the clients how to delegate uh
because that is as much of a constraint
as the assistants. And we've got a few
thousand assistants and clients. And if
you look at the best performing
assistants at Athena, they work for the

best delegators. It's not a coincidence.
The reason they're the best is because
someone has figured out how to export
their ideas, decompose projects, create
SOPs in a way that helps the assistant
fly and the more mediocre delegators uh

struggle with that and need more
training.
>> Yeah. One one thing that you've been
phenomenal at is whether it's Stump Tech
or is is hiring executives. What do you
think that you do differently or what
what are the principles or frameworks
that really guide your sort of exec
hiring process? I mean one thing that is
obvious as you hire execs is the more
senior they go the better they are at
interviewing almost by definition and so
when you get to seuite they all are
really good at interviewing and so you
actually have to discard the interview
more the more senior they go and so I re

uh uh I I use references much more the

higher you go and then the other thing
that I think is interesting that people
should do more of is I just ask people
for their 360 reviews
like at their last company, 10 people
wrote reviews of them that are honest
about their strengths and weaknesses.
And I just asked to see it and I say,
"Hey, I'll share you share mine. You
show me yours. I actually think this
would be a cool kind of reference pro
startup um where you could like ping the
LM about someone versus pinging their
references." So, I try to get to more
ground truth on the person versus
>> the UX of an interview is just gonna be
pretty good when you get to the senior
level. What's most important in when you
## Reference check signals (29:19–32:09)
when you're doing reference checks? What
do you really What's the way to get the
most signal out of them?
>> I mean, what I often tell people is,
hey, I'm probably going to hire this
person. Uh, and now tell me all the

things you don't like about them or
things that they could be better at. Cuz
if you know, people are so biased to
just tell you all the good things. You
have to get them to uh to see it as a

safe place to share strengths and
weaknesses. And yeah, just do enough
references until they start to sound the
same. And once they start to sound the
same, then you've got a signal.
>> Yeah. One question I like to ask is um
what skill sets would be really
important to complement this person
with? Um which is another way of just
saying what are they bad? Like you know
what's really important? Or one of my
favorite questions is if this didn't
work out in 6 months or a year,
>> you know, why would that be?
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I mean the best way to
source talent um I just hired an
executive recently is just ask the
people that you respect the most that
have the highest standards. Who's the
best person? So like here's the three
people who have the highest standards in
this role. I ask them for the two or
three best people and I go try to hire
one of them.
>> And that is the like speed rapid way to

hire an exec. Um you know using an exec
recruiter you spend three months you get
all this cold leads but going through a
network of
>> high bar people is super efficient.
>> There's some maxim that almost like half
of executives you know don't work out
within like a you know 12 to 24 month
period checks out.
>> Yeah. Why is that? I think it's this
it's difficult to uh judge uh the

interview process is not representative
of the work they're doing. And that's
ultimately what's broken about
interviewing is interviewing should be
someone doing the work they're going to
do. Um I think it was like Weebly back
in the day would actually have execs
come work for two weeks to trial before
they ever hired. That's difficult to
pull off because people have other jobs.
But I do think something like that makes
a lot of sense. your interview process
is just kind of irrelevant compared to
what the work they're doing in lots of
cases.
>> Yeah. And Keith has this maxim that
that's like um you you're not going to
get 100% hiring in the same way you're
not going to get 100% investing. And if
you know like you also want to avoid the
you know of not the uh trap of not
taking enough risk or moving too slow.
>> Yeah. And as long as you cut your losses
quickly it's okay. It's if you like
don't cut losses then you compound a
hole and that's where it's painful. The
the other thing I'd say is more useful
for basically all interview process is
project based work. Yeah.
>> So just like
>> you know hiring uh seuite for one pro uh

one part of the team I just tell them
what the pain points in the org are and
what I want to fix and I'm like come up
with a plan like how would you fix this
like if you we hire you you're then
going to do it and that sort of
practical work is more useful.
>> Yeah that's really interesting. What um
going back to other sort of founder
principles what is your stance on um
## Principles for company transparency (32:09–35:55)
transparency with the company like
what's information that's helpful maybe
going back to thumbtack days what's
helpful for the the company to employees
to know like what what are principles
that that guide you know how much you
share
>> yeah I mean default transparency is
obviously the best but there's obviously
some lines like there's uh you know at

thumbtac there was a moment you may
remember this decade ago where I woke up

and I had a message from someone on our
team in the Philippines and it said
Thumbtac does not exist on the internet.
I was like what? And I went to Google.
You type in Thumbtac and nothing shows
up. And we basically received the death
penalty from Google. Uh there was a
>> misunderstanding. They thought we had
done something wrong, but they like
eliminated us from the internet. And so
our traffic went to zero and our revenue

went to zero. And I remember waking up
and like I go to the office and there's
a class of 25 new thumbtackers who it's
their first day. I'm supposed to do the
onboarding with them. There's a
journalist like walking around outside
trying to get a quote. And you know
that's one of those times where you
can't share everything. And so uh you

want to ultimately be transparent but if
I just walked into a new class and say
hey the business might be dead uh that's
not going to work. And so you have to
kind of get a handle of the situation.
uh you know the people who need to know
it know it and then once there's a plan
and a solution in place then the whole
company uh is told
>> yeah that that makes sense. Um at
Thumbtac you were a nonCEO co-founder
and you lasted you know a decade or
almost decade and you're still on the
board of course. Um I feel like it's
pretty rare when I think about
co-founding teams that it feels like the
nonCEO especially if not a CTO usually
doesn't last you know over 5 years or
something. Um I'm curious what's really

important to get right in in co-founder
relationships or how you think about
advising you know companies you invest
in.
>> Yeah. I mean the I heard Sir Michael at
Sequoia say something that was like
there's only one founder.
>> Yeah.
>> And it was at he said it at a founder
event and I was like that's rude.
There's lots of co-founders here. And
now a decade later I'm like of course
there is only one co-founder that goes
the distance because ultimately as you
scale the org it only makes sense to
have one person on top. Yeah. Um so

>> I think that's just the reality and uh

you know it's good to know that going
into starting a business. Uh in terms of
who to pick, my advice is you pick
someone you want to get married to
>> and you're going to have all the same
relationship issues you have with a
partner. uh you know, no makeup sex, but
it's still like uh yeah, there's highs,
lows, and you want someone that
ultimately you you really deeply trust
because there's going to be stress and
>> um challenges, but as long as you trust
the foundation, then you got a good a
good thing to build on. I would say, you
know, one of the biggest I if I called a
mistake at Thumbtac, uh because I love

my founders, but it's something I
wouldn't recommend others do is we had
four co-founders and one was technical.
He left after like two years and then
the other three were non-technical. This
is like the most idiotic way to start a
technology business, but we had no idea
what we're doing and uh you know, it
worked out. And how did you divide and
and conquer between those three
non-technical
>> uh we just kind of jumped on things is
like whoever was good at something
>> but it was no like clear executive.
>> Yeah. And I think that's uh you know
that's not recommended because there's
like it's obvious how that could create
tension. We worked through it but um
that's why it's non non-standard not
best practice.
>> Right. Right. But um I'm going back to
the original story because I remember
there's this uh
>> you got into GSB and you were going to
## Cofounder relationships & company building (35:55–38:19)
go to grad school, but you you know had
your buddies from college and you were
thinking of starting this this business
which wasn't even like a personal pain
point. You just thought it'd be a good
business
>> and you uh emailed the you know let the

GSP people know you weren't going to
accept it and and they sent you back
this very immoralizing email of how
you're making the biggest mistake in
your life.
>> Um etc. you know, it turned out pretty
good, but h how do you Pretty good
decision. Um, how did you at the time
think about get enough conviction to to
take the leap and do it?
>> Yeah, it was scary. I uh got into, you

know, this good school. Seemed like that
was a safe bet. I knew I wanted to start
a business and uh, you know, if I went

to business school, I knew that I'd have
all this debt. I probably might need to
get a nice paying job afterwards. And if
I was going to go for it, I should
probably just go for it. But yeah, when
the dean sent me that email, I was like,
this is biggest mistake of your life. He
said something like uh you can startups

will come and go, but you can only come
to Stanford once or something. This is a
once in a lifetime opportunity. I never
responded and I have it as a email in my

this save that I'm just going to respond
to whenever Thumbtac goes public and be
like, I made the right decision. Uh, and

you know, I have nothing against this
guy. He's just doing his job, but it's
good to have a little uh chips on your
shoulder.
>> Yeah, totally. Okay, so there's EAS and
then there chiefs of staffs.
>> How should we think about sort of the
the difference there? And what's really
important to get right in chief of
staff? It's it's a role that everyone in
addition to EA wishes they they had um

but seems hard to find the right person.
>> Yeah, there's no formal definition. And
I think it's something that uh an EA is
typically more administrative and taking
things off your plate and uh chief of
staff is more offensive and it's the
type of person who can follow you into
meetings. You could deploy to hey like
actually take this meeting for me or hey
this problem came up uh today go figure
out how to solve it. And so a chief of
staff typically has the capabilities to
become a founder themselves. and the
only reason they take the job as chief
of staff is so they can see what it's
like to be a founder so they can go off
uh to do it. So you kind of get people
who do more tours of duty and you get
super high capability uh but you don't
get the same longevity as a assistant.

What have you looked for in chief of
## Chief of staff vs. executive assistant (38:19–39:06)
staff or what's sort of the right, you
know, there's sort of this tension
between, you know, getting someone
younger who's, you know, definitely
initially going to do it for for a
couple years um and is more ambitious

versus someone who's been more seasoned
but maybe not as high slope or
something. How do you think about
>> The way I break it down is assistant,
you find someone you want to go a decade
with. Uh the intimacy and the
compounding of that relationship is
super important. And so you go deep and
that means you probably don't find a
founder because they're not going to be
excited to do this. It's someone who's
much more of a caretaker and is excited
to be number two. And then a chief of
staff I do pure slope where you know the
person is going to move on in a couple
years but they have yeah they could
start a business but instead you get
them by your side to help solve
problems. And there there are people you
## Learning from high-performers: Lonsdale, Elon, Thiel, etc. (39:06–46:10)
know like Lonsdale maybe like a lot or
something who have you know chief of
staff for like a year or two and then
they start a company then they invest in
them and they build kind of this
reputation for for doing and then they
have sort of these like you know um
alumni almost chief of staff just kind
of you know Peter Teals just kind of
further
>> yeah Bezos has this someone follows him
around that goes to every meeting and
yeah it's cool
>> yeah let let's talk about some some
people who get an enormous amount done
and I'm curious what are lessons that we
can draw from them. Whether it's someone
like Lonsdale, whether it's someone like
Elon, whether it's someone like Sam
Alman, who who are folks that you've
particularly learned something from even
just watching from afar of like how do
they build their world? How do they
operate? I'll just say one for for
someone like Londale Til has done this
really well. They sort of compound these
certain talent networks. So, you know,
whether it's like Stanford Review or
just Stanford in general, um they're
often hiring people from there and then
involved in sort of these talent
pipelines. they sort of, you know,
created, you know, they're deep in the
hackathon scene, but they just kind of
build this proprietary compounding sort
of talent base that they're constantly,
you know, sort of um
>> I mean, the talent access is part of it.
I think the other thing is there are
some people who have just limitless
ambition and you're very much this way
of like, well, what if I could do 10
times more things? Yeah.
>> And I think lots of people uh just think
that's impossible.
>> Um but it's not. it is possible and uh

with delegation and empowerment you can
just keep compounding bigger and bigger
scale. The other thing that's
interesting that we've seen from working
with these like power delegators is
people assume that uh people of uh great

power or wealth or uh resources can

afford this team and then that uh is why

they have this ambition. But we've
actually seen the opposite is the case
is as people get more leverage with
assistant, their ambition increases.
Yeah.
>> And it's difficult to have big ambition.
If you're just weighed down by DMV forms
and passports, but once that's off your
plate, then you raise your sights and
you can be more ambitious and you know,
then you go from assistant to a chief of
staff and you just keep leveling up to,
you know, until you're lonsdale or the
president. I I think another thing I've
admired about some of these people is
they um
>> you know they remark hold remarkably few
grudges like um you know apparently you

know Peter Teio like kicked Elon out of
PayPal or something or you know like a
lot of these people have had beefs you
know decades ago
>> and yet he ended up funding his next
company and so people have very short
memories if if someone you know
mistreats them or they make a mist
mistake or something they're quick to
reconcile and just do business again
over Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean, look what uh President
Vance said about President Trump before
they were partners. It's I think there's

>> Trump's actually quite forgiving or you
know, a lot of people say a lot of bad
things about him and he'll continue to
work with them as long as they change
their mind.
>> Yeah. I think there's just a desire to
win uh at all costs and uh yeah, grudges

are not helpful.
>> Yeah. Even Trump and Elon, right? You
getting into it and you know,
reconciling,
you know, TVD where it stands by by the
time this comes out. And and then there
are some people who seem to have pretty
like uh you know Bill Gates has like you
know pretty big team, pretty big
operation.
>> Um but then it seemed like Bezos and

Elon maybe have like pretty lean and so
yeah I'm curious how you think about
sort of
>> I mean Elon's the one that makes no
sense. It's he claims to not have an
assistant and to be like scheduling
stuff. There's a story of Bill Gates
being like trying to schedule a meeting
with Elon. and he's like, "Connect me
with your assistant." And Elon's like,
"No, I am my assistant." Uh, it's I I

hardly believe it, but Elon's just
insane. So maybe he is that that way. I
think most normal humans, if you want to
get leverage, you have to delegate. I
mean, the one of the cool
>> personal teams I saw is this guy who's a
billionaire. He's runs this hedge fund
and he has a team of 40. Uh he has eight

personal uh executive assistants. The
all of the executive assistants graduate
from Princeton. insanely high bar. And I
was asking this woman who managed the EA
team like, "How do you decide what to
prioritize your team on?" And she's
like, "If my team can spend one day

saving my uh principal one minute, it's

well worth our time." And I'm like, that
is so next level and definitely like
that's something I would love to aspire
to, but it's just, you know,
>> the the the billionaire budget.
>> Yeah, it's pretty funny. Um also just in
terms of prioritiz like um you know
we're hiring you know assistants here
and someone was saying oh you know do
you want them to be in all meetings with
you and I was like well if they're in
meetings with me then they're not
working like I want them to be like you
know finding ways to give me leverage
and take things off my
>> plate. I mean this is one of our visions
at Athena is that you can have digital
assistants that listen to you and work
with you and are connected to your Zoom
and your inbox and your calendar and can
be mining all of that digital exhaust
for things your assistant should work
on. And so I mean your assistant can't
possibly sit in every meeting if they're
going to do anything, but if the digital
uh the machine assistants are surveying
it and pulling things out, that's a
pretty cool combination.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's interesting to
look at how people build out their
univer like for example, you know, Mark
and Ben
>> funnel everything through as Z and are
all in on Z and of course have, you
know, other intellectual or
philanthropic interests, but mostly it's
like consolidate. Whereas someone like
Peter Teal has this um he sort of
fragments it a bit more you know like um
you know founders fund but then other
several other you know myith several
other funds other company all sorts of

like um initiatives that are you know

somewhat collaborative but independent.
Yeah. Um and he he sits on top but also

it seems like he lets them you know he's
not like CEO of of of them. Um, and he's

got this sort of talent, you know,
network that he's worked with for a long
time that kind of like, uh, you know,

goes in almost boomerangs across the the

universe.
um lonsdale feels like he's more hands

he's got the HBC universe but then his
his um other initiative he's like quick
to institutionalize something whether
it's like a think tank or like you know
it's no coincidence that you know Peter
Teal would do the sort of teal
fellowship and la create a university or
something teal is almost like early to
stuff he creates a format for something

um a template you know he does the hard
work of sort of um you know field
building intellect or like you know uh
doing something that's in a
controversial space or it's longevity or
charter cities or um you know higher
education and then um you know people
like Lonsdale institutionalize it to to
some degree. Um and then yeah Elon you

know it's been described also has this
like SWAT team
>> um you know of of people that help him
from from company to company and he's
just able to recruit you know
world-class people to to lead these
efforts.
>> Yeah, I think it comes it's like what's
## Building your universe: org structures and talent networks (46:10–51:33)
the right org structure? There's
actually no right or structure. It's
what's the right or structure for you as
a founder and you know Mark Andre and

Ben Horowitz are company builders and so
they're building their leverage like a
company. The A16Z is a company.
>> Uh not that Peter Teal is not an
entrepreneur but he's more of a
philosopher today and so his uh system

is more like a philosopher. It's all
these kind of wild and crazy ideas. Uh,
and so I think, you know, Jensen Hang
has like 46 direct reports or something,
which is absolutely insane, but it works
for him. And so I think you just have to
know what your style is and then you
build it for you.
>> Totally. And someone like, you know, Sam
Alman is like a dealmaker and a
fundraiser
>> and a talent identifier, you know, and
so he's able to like I remember he was
at YC and he was talking to my one of my
friends about sort of this universal
basic income company. My friend didn't
end up doing it, but I was like, "Huh,
that's interesting. Why is why is he
even doing that?" He's like focused on
waste and he's like
>> he he has a knack for for good ideas. He
has a knack for and this person was like
22. He has a knack for you know uh high

slope talent and he has a superpower
around raising money.
>> Yeah. I mean one of the things that I
think new founders or at least me as a
new founder was like okay what are my
weaknesses and how do I get better at
them?
>> But then a second time founder is like
forget all of my weaknesses. I'm just
not even going to try. I'm just going to
be really good at my strengths and I'm
going to hire other people to do all the
things I'm not good at. And that is way
more effective.
>> Yeah, totally. The um there used to be
this sort of skepticism of like hey you
can't really and there still is actually
you can't really incubate company like
this the CEO has to be the co- the
founder they have to drive it to where
do you stand on on kind of that that
debate.
>> I think the biggest companies aren't
incubated because the biggest companies
have a founder who is monomomaniacal
from the beginning and compounds it for
50 years.
>> Yeah totally
>> and that's not incubation. incubation is
kind of let me uh try a bunch of thing.
It's not this monomomaniacal power law
commitment. So if you're just trying to
build a trillion dollar business, I
think that's not the way to do it.
>> But look, if you like, you know, we have
a mutual friend who likes to remain
anonymous who incubates lots of
companies and he launches four companies
a year
>> and he loves doing it and he's going to
make a ton of money doing it and that's
just his style. Well, he's not going to
probably have trillion dollar
businesses, but he's going to have 50,

you know, hundred million dollar
businesses, which is still incredible,
>> right? Yeah. I think one bookcase is
more of it's like uh breeding like, you
know, Sam Alman in some sense incubated
OpenAI and that it wasn't the main thing
he was working on, but then once he
identified that it could be, you know,
this massive opportunity then then went
all in all in with it.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean it's more like a
venture portfolio and you know there's
probably a bunch of stuff Peter Teal has
done that we don't even remember uh
because like sea studying and things
like that because they just disappear
into the ether and then things that work
compound and so yeah I mean if you have
the resources to launch 10 new things
and then just double down on the one
thing that's big every year that's a
cool cool approach
>> right a decade ago Mark Andre wrote this
blog post on productivity
>> and they were asking him how you think
about you meetings, scheduling,
whatever. And he said, "You know what? I
try not to schedule things in advance
because I don't know how I'll feel, you
know, next week and I want kind of want
to do things like in flow." And so when,

you know, people are trying to get my
time, what I typically say is like,
"Call me right now
>> or
>> feel free to check in
>> next week and we'll see how I feel."
>> Yeah.
>> And it kind of is like better aligned
with sort of the flow state. Um, and
>> I mean that's the ultimate flex. It's
like if if you can pull that off, that
is definitely the ultimate way to live
is you just work on whatever you want.
The world opens up to you. You call
>> obviously it's hard for most uh new
mortals to pull off. But yeah, if you
can get to that level, that is the
dream,
>> right? So then I I was for certain, you
know, meetings that people cold reaching
out or whatever. supposed to kind of
try. It's It's like um I always
anticipate that in a few more days I'll
be like busier than I am or something or
I'll have whereas like right now, yeah,
I got time. Give me a call. Um but so I
I tried that a little bit and then I
Mark did a follow-up interview uh where
someone asked him about that. Sure. Um
um and he was like, "Oh, you know, that
didn't work." Like I I tried but that
didn't work. Now I'm just scheduled
everything
>> just back toback all day long.
>> I was like, "Oh, god damn it. You've
been doing that." Um, and it's um, but
he's, you know, he's also mastered uh,
multitasking. And
>> I mean, I think people just, uh, the
thing I think you can learn from Mark
and other people is just, uh, challenge
the defaults occasionally. And if you're
in backto-back meetings all the time,
try this other system and see see if it
works. Uh, I think most people just go
with the flow. I think other thing is
most people aren't vicious enough at
saying no. Yeah.
>> And just being super hardcore is like,
is that conference you're going to
matter? Is that random? get to know you
chat mean anything? Yeah, I think you
just say no to most things. Um, you
know, I've
>> back in the Uber vers uh really scaling

war days, I remember emailing Logan a
question um probably to come to one of
our dinners and he just responded war
mode.
>> And I love that. And I'm like, well,
most people should actually be in war
mode like 90% of the time. And that same

>> Yeah. hardcornness is just like the
right way to operate.
>> Yeah. What have you learned in your
## Managing founder psychology & staying in the game (51:33–55:26)
extensive founder career about uh
managing your own psychology, dealing
with stress,
>> dealing with the cognitive dissonance
of, you know, having to present
externally like things are amazing even
when, you know, you're concerned about
Google, you know, taking out your
business. Um what um what advice might

you have for others in terms of
cultivating this? Uh
>> yeah, man. I think it's like a cold
plunge or something. It's just you just
shock therapy and eventually you it's
just like you're bathed in existential
fear all the time and you're like
whatever, let's bring it on. Totally.
>> Uh
>> I don't think there's there's much other
than knowing that it's going to happen.
There's going to be tons of ups and
downs. I think one of the clear lessons
from Thumbtac, which is now scaled and
and done so well, was that like there
was lots of near misses where we almost
died times where we thought it wasn't
going to work. And it's like you just
got to stay in the game. Yeah.
>> And if you can stay in the game, you can
eventually win. Yeah. And I think
Thumbtac was very good at staying in the
game so that we can eventually win.
>> Um
>> Yeah. It's funny. There's like degrees
of panic in the beginning. You know,
you're getting your feet wet. It's like,
"Oh my god, someone said something mean
about me on the internet. And then it's
like, "Oh my god, someone wants to like
leave my company."
>> And then it's like, "Oh my god, um,

we're, you know, we might die. We only

six months of payroll." Then it's like,
"Oh my we're going to get sued."
>> Like, you know,
>> well, it's like the first time you get
sued or you're worried about getting
sued and then eventually you have a
board meeting and there's just a list of
lawsuits and it's just you revict them
quarterly. It's just like that's
actually what success is is like you're
gonna have that stuff constantly and it
becomes Yeah. Just part of business.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And you just keep building
up more uh capacity uh to handle these

things and they, you know, just
>> Yeah. That's where like I think
co-founders are the best is is like it's
the people you can be totally open with
and be like, well, that situation's
effed up. What? And someone you can
trust and
>> totally
>> be on the ups and downs with.
>> Let's go to Athena and let's go where we
started, which is sort of the
intersection between uh humans and AI.

How have you thought about building
Athena given sort of developments in AI
and what does that mean for for Athena
started fully bootstrapped human only
scaled to a thousand people no outside
capital and then we had this AI moment a

few years ago and it was clear we could

uh make a big AI play and this could
become a generational business or we
could get railroaded by AI and so only

one option there is go big and uh our
vision here is this uh is you take the
best of a human and best of a machine
wrap it into one unified product and
what the machine does will increase over

time just like a self-driving car and so
the humans the UX it's on top uh it will

become more the human assistant will
focus more on project management and
highle uh work uh and really be that
like caretaker that empathy that partner
and then the machine will increasingly
do the more row mechanical
administrative stuff and you know just

as when you get into a Tesla, uh, you
know, Elon made them with wheels, so
with steering wheels, so you could drive
them because they don't drive
themselves, uh, when he started, but
every time you get in the car, you're
actually teaching the machine how to
drive. Yeah.
>> And these models don't, uh, generalize
well. You have to bring edge cases under
distribution. And so every time you
drive, the uh, the model gets more
powerful. And the same is true in um,
executive assistant. Our humans are
driving. They're doing the tasks, but
we're building machine models that are
being improved by the way they act. And
so the more your assistant does tasks
for you, the more our models will
improve and that'll allow the human to
upgrade what they they work on to more
high leverage stuff.
>> Yeah. Um that's exciting. So what what
## Athena’s vision: human + AI assistants (55:26–56:49)
else uh can you share about plugs for
the company or things to watch out for
or for people who you know want to get
assistance, you know? Yeah, look it uh I
just say if you don't have an assistant,
you are the assistant. Step one, uh if
you're starting a business, you should
hire assistant. And if you've got 20
bucks a month, use Chat GPT. Yeah. If
you've got, you know, 10 bucks an hour,
go on to Upwork and hire someone
yourself. Uh if you hire someone
yourself, I would say my main
recommendation is you need to interview
a lot of people. Uh you know, Athena, we
have
>> 50,000 assistants apply per month and we
put them through a huge battery of tests
and we hire like one in 300. So, if
you're going to hire on yourself, make
sure you interview not 10, but probably
like 50 people. Uh, if you have the
resources for $3,000 a month, then you
should work with a company like Athena
who can recruit, train, manage, and
teach you how to delegate. And then when
you have the resources for an in-person
assistant, uh, 100 150k a year, you
should do that as well. Um, and then
ultimately, you know, when you get later
stage, you have a chief of staff,
inerson assistant, and, you know, a
fleet of Athena assistants in the cloud.
Yeah, that's a great great overview.
Well, let's wrap on that podcast.