## Introduction (0:00–1:07)
85% of the companies we talked to said
they really believe they only have the
next 18 months to either become a leader
or fall behind. You know, we have our
little group chat where we have another
friend who's like, "Oh, all this stuff
is overhyped and it's going to zero."
Every time I use AI, it's amazing.
>> There's somebody at every big company
who has figured out I could do something
in 1 minute that used to take 8 hours.
28-year-old guy who was using Chat GPT
really really well and they had him
create a 30 slide deck and they did a
global call for everyone in the
investment bank for this guy to spend an
hour walking people through how to use
chat but that's absurd that's an absurd
way to hope people adopt worldchanging
technology cursor has taken mediocre
engineers and made them good but it's
taken amazing engineers and made them
gods every board meeting I go in for my
other four metrics I have some report of
how are we doing those report and on AI
all I have is the amount of stuff we
bought when I measure becomes a target.
It is no longer accurate as a measure.
>> Even though we thought we had our quota
set and we thought everyone was
productive, it turned out we thought we
were productive and actually it turned
out we could be much more productive.
>> But compared to what?

>> I'm excited to be here with my friend
Russ Frerieden. Um
## Early Career, Ad Tech, and Web 1.0 (1:07–2:09)
>> yeah, good to see you.
>> Uh I've known you for a long time and I
think when I first met you, I still
actually remember meeting you the first
time. It was from uh I think Josh
McFarland. Um, and Josh was at Google
and he was like, "Yeah, there's this guy
Russ Fred and he started this company,
Adify." And he sold it to Cox for all
this money. You know, back then $300
million was a lot.
>> It's It is amazing. I I
>> now it's like a B- round, but like back
then like that was a huge acquisition.
And uh there there was like oh like Russ
like I had like amazing person that
pulled this off. Um and uh I think we
met in Florida.
>> That's right. uh on a Silicon Valley
bank trip and kind of all things uh

everything comes full circle in the end.
But um you know AI is probably the
hottest thing in the history of the
world. Um but you also worked in what
was the hottest thing in the history of
the world in web 1.0.
>> Yeah.
>> But now there's this big question
actually. It reminds me of adte. I think
it's kind of a nice little segue because
like adtech you're trying to figure out
does the advertising work, right?
>> Like a lot of adte is here's an
advertisement and there's this
attribution problem.
## Attribution Problems in Ad Tech & AI (2:09–3:30)
>> Yep. of the sale happened. Who is

responsible for that sale? Was it the
banner ad on Yahoo? Was it the last
click that happened on Google? Was it
the coupon site that you know stuffed a
cookie on your machine? So part of
adtech is just how do I figure like I'm
buying ads. That's part of it, but part
of it is also did it work? And AI,

there's all sorts of stuff around making
AI work, which is like technically very
very challenging. But then there's the
question of did it actually yield a
benefit?
>> Yep. which is probably the biggest
question for I mean there's there's a
lot of like myths on this on both sides
but would love to kind of hear about the
origins of Laridan and how you think
about even some similarities between the
two.
>> Sure. Yeah. There there's a lot of
parallels really to what happened in the
'9s with advertising and the growth of
the internet and what we're seeing with
AI. I mean forget the capital markets
perspective. It is it is funny to think
about uh what what is defined as big

from an exit these days versus 5 years
ago, 10 years ago, 20 years ago. And
that's that's kind of its own topic, but
just when I moved out here, I moved out
to Silicon Valley in 1996 and I was the
first guy at the first online ad
network. And in the early days, it was
just there are websites, we should put
ads on them. Great. How do we do that at
scale? Great. What are the metrics we
should capture? Then you saw the growth
of things like comcore or Neielson as
they moved into television to figure out
## Building Measurement Infrastructure (3:30–5:49)
like how do I actually plan this? How do
I spend this? How do I give tools?
Right? All of the money lived in TV or
in radio and there were these tools like
Neielson, Arbitron, IMS Health on the
pharmaceutical side. There were all
these tools to help people understand
what they were getting when they
advertised on television. You had to
build that entire stack for the
internet. You had companies like
DoubleClick or Flycast where I was or uh
companies like Omnature building a
different part of the stack. companies
like Comscore building a different part
of the stack and those companies

obviously Google and Facebook are two of
the most amazing companies ever built
but if it wasn't for all of that
infrastructure their revenue just
wouldn't have grown as quickly and I I
really do think we'll see the same thing
in AI now the technology is unbelievable

and you know my core thesis when I was
thinking about starting Laridan after
having been you know the first guy at
the first online ad network and having
been maybe the first one of the first
two executives at comcore way way 25

years ago back in the day um my my
partner Jim and I sat down and we said
look you know every time there's a
tremendous shift in budget and
especially when it happens at a great
pace like what happened from TV to
digital advertising what's happened in a
lot of categories from client server to
cloud anytime that happens people need

to rebuild all of the infrastructure
there's a great opportunity to build all
of these tools around measurement around
governance not with the goal of stopping
anything frankly with the goal of
accelerating it because if I am a large
company, yes, I'm going to experiment a
ton with AI today. It's the most
exciting thing that's happened in the
last 20 years from the technology
standpoint. It's amazing. It's
wonderful. But also, there are very
boring but important questions. I have
35,000 people in my workforce. They
can't all get retrained all at once with
perfect knowledge and perfect security.
How does it affect my DNO insurance? Was
the project ultimately valuable? So we
really wanted to start a company about
how would you build kind of the
measurement and governance set of tools
not to be a gatekeeper but to empower
more of this spending. I I think as we
grow we will be the best friend to all
of the AI companies.
>> Yeah. And and um I mean maybe we can get
into how you're doing this but um just

to kind of level set a little bit and I
love this framing that you gave me. I've
I've stolen it. Um, when I steal a
phrase, it's the most sincere form of
flattery, of course, but um, I I just
## Software Eating Labor: Productivity Shifts (5:49–7:51)
released a little video about kind of
uh, how software is eating labor. So,
you know, software eats the world. This
was a thesis that our firm is founded
on, but it's eating labor, but it
doesn't actually mean that like jobs are
going to go away. Largely, what it means
is that people are going to be like 10
times more productive or I can't hire
anybody to do this job, but I can hire
AI to do it. So you have companies where

uh their software budget is very very
small but their labor budget is enormous

and step one of like the mega
opportunity that excites us as a firm is
that people say oh I'm going to start
hiring software but now that means that
your software budget is enormous.
>> Yes. Because right now, if you have like
a $10 billion labor market, labor budget
and like a $1 software budget, you're
not going to try to cut, you know,
optimize your $1 software budget, but
you're really going to say, "Okay, do I
need to hire more people? Can I make
people more productive?" You know, all
these things that are going through
people's minds right now. And this is
yielding a lot of the mega growth curves
of the AI software companies. But now,
this chart is going to be a little bit
more balanced. Sure. Of like the 10
billion of labor, you know, maybe that
goes to eight and now you spend two
billion or$1 billion on software. So
like the the net spending for the
company is actually lower, the company's
more profitable, productivity gains
galore, but then is this productive?
Like I always want to know if the humans
are productive, but then like is the
software yielding more me more
productivity and how do I measure that?
So everybody's excited about this gold
rush. I'm going to use these these
tools, but like do they work? And how
well do they work? And what's the
baseline?
>> Yes. So, so I've stolen your framing of
it's like, you know, if Chase spends $18
billion on software, whatever they

>> like they need to know if they're
getting their money's worth, they need
to figure out if this is actually
efficient spend.
>> Yes. Look, a funny thing, not funny, a
thing you will hear said frequently by
the people running the largest AI
companies in the world, the people
running the largest firms investing in
AI in the world is they'll say something
along the lines of, you know, today
global IT spend is $1 trillion. And we
think because of AI and agents that
## The Challenge of Measuring AI ROI (7:51–13:54)
could go to 10 trillion. And you know,
let's ignore whether that's true or
false. It's certainly the bullcase for
Nvidia, for open AI, for all of the
other things that we spend all of our
time doing. And so when you think about
it, I think we said uh I think if I

remember correctly, JP Morgan Chase's
global IT spend is on the order of 18 or
19 billion and they spend a couple
hundred billion a year on people. So if

you really think about that, well, is
their IT spend going to go from 18
billion to $180 billion?
Seems unlikely in the next couple
months, but it's certainly going to go
up. And if it's going to go up, what
does the CFO need to understand? And at
the same time because of the pace you
know a way I like to frame this that I
think everyone knows but I think it's
important to say out loud is

yes there have been tons of shifts right
we've shifted society a million times
we've shifted from farms to cities right
we we all know all of these examples but
we can't we've never had a time where
we've expected the entire global
workforce of knowledge workers to be
retrained immediately on a new set of
tools that didn't exist 6 months ago.
Right? And so there is an element where
everyone needs to figure this out as we
go along. So what did we start with as a
company? Right? Our first set of tools
is just what do you have in your company
and are people flatout using it? You've
spent all of this money. Are people
using it? And what you find is you know
80 something% of our customers find far

more tools being used by their employees
than they know about and they've
licensed. That doesn't mean it was bad
by the way. Some of those tools are
dangerous and they should worry about
that. Some of those tools are might be
very popular and they need to bring them
into the fold and understand what's
happening. But from an IT standpoint,
you normally don't allow software to
just be used across your organization
with access to your organization's data
and have no idea what's happening. We're
letting that happen in AI all the time.
And I don't really say that to our
customers as a fear cell. It's to be
expected. Things are moving quickly. You
have to know what's going on. So we
start with the baseline of just flat out
what's happening. The second set of
things we try and solve is how do we get
people using this stuff more in a
productive way on the AI side on the
agent side. How do we get people using
this in their workflow? I'm a marketer
working at General Mills or something
like that, right? I'm a marketer working
at General Mills. How is General Mills
going to help me use these tools? And
what I've generally found with
employees, if you really want to drive
employee usage of tools, you have to
make them feel safe so they won't look
dumb.
And you have to make them understand
that they can use this safely without
getting fired. Because again, it's one
thing if you're 22 years old and you've
been using these tools effectively your
entire life since, you know, high
school. But if you're a 42year-old

person who's been, you know, had a
20some year career and you're working in
your job every day and by the way, you
also have things you do at home and you
have business travel. You have all of
these things you have to do. Also, you
have to become an AI expert. You really
would like to not look dumb and you'd
like to accidentally not upload the
wrong data and get yourself fired. This
is actually a bigger issue in some
countries where there's a bunch of EU
regulations around AI that do matter and
if I'm an employee at a company, I don't
want to look dumb. So, if I'm the CFO,
we bought all these tools. What did we
actually buy? Number one.
>> Number two, how do we get people
actually using these tools? Because the
usage on these tools in the enterprise
is
>> less than people would think today,
which makes sense, by the way. I'm going
to get to the productivity thing in a
second, but you know, anyone listening
to this, if you've ever been a part of
any software rollout at any enterprise
ever, a very boring but very important
question is how do we drive actual
usage? And sure, everybody uses email.
People use Workday because if you don't
use Workday, you're going to get fired,
right? You're not going to get your
paycheck. But most enterprise software,
your internet software from SharePoint,
things like that are used by a
relatively small set of the population
that you wish were using it. And so if
the goal is to get people more
productive using AI tools, you want to
drive actual employee engagement. So we
built a suite of tools around that. And
then you have to get into productivity,
which is did this get people actually
more productive? Is my organization
actually more productive? So today

I I know where I want to go with Larin.
What I like to think about today is what
we're doing today on the productivity
side is not as far as I'd like it to go,
but it's certainly better than anything
that exists in the market. So what we're
doing today is we're marrying the
behavioral data that no one else has,
which is is Alex a heavy user of chat
GPT or not, just flat out. We're not
doing it at the individual level, but
we'll use that example for the podcast
because we have to worry about the
employee privacy concerns that companies
have for their own employees. But at the
end of the day, I want to understand,
did my users in the legal department
that were using this expensive legal
tool I bought, right?
>> Are they more productive than my users
in the legal department that are not?
Because what I've definitely done is
I've driven up my opex. I bought this
software. I've driven up my opex. But
are they more productive? Are my
marketers that are using Claude or Chat
GPT actually more productive?
>> How do you measure that?
>> So today we do it the only way
productivity research has ever existed
so far, which is we take the normal
productivity survey market research that
people have done for 50 years. Not
ideal, but it is the gold standard. It's
McKenzie. It's Towers Watson. It's
Accenture. and we lay on top of it
proprietary data that other folks don't
have which is actual usage. So the way I
think of it is the worst way to measure
productivity is I'm going to send a
survey to my employees and say do you
feel more productive today from using
chat GPT. First of all there's a
definition issue. Second of all people
are going to answer the way you hope
they'll answer. But third you have no
idea if they're actually using the
tools.
>> So a better way to do that I learned
this years ago at comscore I one of the
things one of many things I did at
comcore is I ran our survey market
research group and one of the reasons
the com score surveys were great is we
had the behavioral data married with the
actual survey responses. We're doing the
same thing here. Where I ultimately
would like to get to is full passive
measurement on productivity. The truth
with that is for enterprises that's
going to require a level of additional
data sharing that we're not getting yet
from customers. We we will eventually
get there.
>> But to kind of like put a finer point on
this, um, so I'm a lawyer.
## The Productivity Baseline Problem (13:54–17:46)
>> I work at, you know, at at some big
company. um you know productivity to a

certain extent like if I only have to
work four hours a day versus eight hours
a day like that's great for me like I
kind of feel like it's a win because I I
often think about like the principal
agent problem right
>> so uh everybody is an agent and then

there's the ethereal being of the
corporation which is the principal and
it's like you know yeah I guess if I own
stock in my corporation I want it to be
more profitable but really I want to
work as little as possible and get paid
as much as possible like that's kind of
every individual agents job and then you

have these tools. So like theoretically
it's like everybody's going to adopt
these things if they get to be lazier.
Yep.
>> Like everybody wants to be lazier.
>> Sure.
>> Right. They want to be lazier and
richer. I feel like these are like the
universal like kind of human condition.
>> There's some small set that want
promotions but I agree for 90% richer.
That's true. That's true.
>> So like if you can get the promotion by
doing less work, I'm sure people would
opt for that. But I guess like how like
think about everybody will use these
tools or like I think I was telling you
this sad story because our kids go to
the same school. It's like younger kid
gets busted cheating right with chat GPT
like clearly productivity gain for him
right because it allowed him to be
lazier and you know richer with his
video game time until we confiscated his
phone. Um but
>> but also a set of rules that you can get
in trouble
>> set rules but but like take that example
like so you can imagine the individual
agent you know the human being the the
lawyer in this example is benefiting you
know but then does the company benefit
because to a certain extent like I'm
paying you the same amount of money uh I
want you to work for eight hours a day
right
>> so actually my expectation should be
that if you're whatever I don't know
what the lawyer does but like drafting
legal drafts like if you can now do it
in 4 hours versus eight you know and
spend 4 hours uh you playing golf like
you're thrilled you got a productivity
gain. The company didn't actually
benefit,
>> right?
>> Um so what you kind of want is you want
both parties to benefit which is always
tough because sometimes it's very very
hard to sell products to people that
eliminate their jobs.
>> Sure.
>> That's probably the hardest thing to
sell. But like I mean maybe kind of
taking this example and riffing on it
like uh now I can do in eight hour like
in four hours I can do what used to take
me eight.
>> Sure. But how does the company a
company's like, "Oh, wow. You're still
you're you're you're operating at your
baseline, but actually you should be
able to do twice as much with this
tool." So, I guess like how do you
define the baseline? How do you address
that problem? How do you think am I am I
framing it the right way?
>> I I think I think you're framing it I I
think you're certainly framing it all
right way for certain size of companies,
right? We all know for Silicon Valley
what you're going to have just because
of the competition and the equity form
of compensation. What you'll have is if
I can get done in four hours what I
could have done in eight, I'm just going
to work four more hours and then another
four. And that that's very different.
That that's there's some subset of
workers at all size companies, probably
a larger percent in Silicon Valley, but
a smaller percent in at GE, right? There
are people at GE who want to one day
become the CEO of GE and those people
will work as much as they possibly can.
So there's some subset of workers there.
For the rest, look, there's an
interesting question about how is
management going to evolve overall,
right? I think behind all this the first
question is the first question we're
trying to solve is like I said do people
use these and from a corporation
standpoint for our measures of
productivity which is we're defining it
with each of our customers right for our
measures of productivity as we ping
folks is there a difference in
productivity between the heavy users and
the lighter users what we want to
measure with that we won't we're not
doing this today what we want to measure
with that is then some concept of raw
tonnage of work right the ultimate

there's this lingua franco uh when we
talk about kind of employees of FTE
right and we all know that you work
different than I work and then you know
various people work and we all know that
yet if I'm the CFO of I don't have to
pick on JP Morgan again if I'm the CFO
of JP Morgan I have a fundamental you
know horse sense for what do a th00and
FTE do versus 500 FT versus 2,000 FTE
## Defining and Measuring Productivity (17:46–20:27)
and AI is going to break all of that for
for sure and so our main goal today is
just to build the baseline for our
customers which is at the end of the A
are the people using these tools
fundamentally more productive than the
folks that aren't. Layer on top of that
tonnage of amount of time worked. You
can get a pretty good It's never
perfect. People are on vacation. You
have to measure this as groups, right?
Any given person
>> was out sick one day or was on a flight
one day or was at a training one day
that it's impossible to measure and you
you it seems from a system standpoint
they weren't working. They actually were
working. They were doing a training,
right? So think of this as at the
aggregate data. It's never useful. None
of this data is ever useful at the Russ
Freighten level. I mean to get
existential, was I productive yesterday?
It's is unknowable. Like I can't know if
I was productive yesterday.
>> I think you were I
>> I was all for it. But what we're trying
to do at the systems level for companies
is understand is there some correlation
between specific use of these tools on
advanced side, light side, heavy side,

he heavy user of the tool, lighter use
of the tool. Were the were the users
more productive in their job? Were the
employees more productive in their job?
and then measure on top of that amount
of time those segments of workers were
actually working because the goal if I'm
a CFO today is not to understand did Ben

do a good job and did Tina do a good job
the goal is to understand I have
definitely been asked to spend 50% more
on opex
>> right
>> did I drive something right and and then
by the way there are interesting
questions we know this around staffing
size and will companies get more done
because people will actually work eight
hours Yeah,
>> look, it will turn out I suspect it is

true that
this is one of the things managers do. I
suspect it is true over time if it
becomes clear that all of your employees
are now working four hours a day instead
of eight.
>> You will probably decide to have fewer
employees and they will work the
remaining employees will work six hours
a day. I'm not sure I really buy in the
next couple of years you will see people
in large companies actually just working
half as much. You know, sole proprietors
is what it is. Like I if I were a sole
proprietor lawyer
kind of my only measure of productivity
today is to myself anyway, right? It's
how hard do I want to work and how much
money do I want?
>> Well, there the principle is the agent.
This is why it's like but this is this
is why it's so important and this is why
I mean candidly I love what you do.
Obviously I love what you do. That's why
you're here. Um but uh you there is no

baseline like it's like did this work
well first you have to know how like you
have to define the outputs you have the
inputs which are largely just like time
and money right
>> um and then you have the outputs and
part of it is actually it is kind of
## Goodhart’s Law & the Pitfalls of Metrics (20:27–21:41)
complicated to come up with an output
like do you know a good heart's law
>> uh go ahead
>> so goodart's law I I love this one it's
like when a target becomes a measure

sorry when a measure becomes a target
>> yes
>> it is no longer accurate as a measure
Yes.
>> Right. So, if I say, "Okay, I'm going to
judge you based on I'm going to like how
many emails are sent every day." Well,
that's a measure. But once it becomes a
target, it's like I want you to send
more emails. Well, you're no longer like
the measurement gets
>> corrupted because because now now people
decide to do more things to hit this
target and it's no longer an objective
measure. So, you know, part of it is if
I'm trying to figure out like, okay,
there's a product called Harvey. A lot
of people love Harvey and it seems to
make people a lot more productive but
compared to what
>> right and so to me the only way you
answer that we'll talk about Harvey
nothing against Harvey I'm sure Harvey
is amazing uh to me the only way to
really understand this and that's why I
think the traditional way companies are
doing this just doesn't work at all
which is hey let's survey the people
that use Harvey and ask them if they
were productive and by the way they will
all say yes because no one ever answers
they weren't number one and number two
my boss paid for the product I'm I'm
going to say it was a good product right
unless We all universally hate it which
I assume is not true of Harvey because
everyone seems to like Harvey. So that's
wonderful. So I think all you can
## The Harvey Example: Usage vs. Value (21:41–24:18)
actually do is it's why I think the
traditional way of measuring this is
broken. Look, it's why we started
learning it. All you can really do is
understand without asking people how

much usage of Harvey are these people
actually doing, right? We have five
people, we have six people, whatever
they'd say on a survey. Two have never
logged in. Right? We've all seen the
joke about, you know, your project is
due. It's due in an hour. You said you
were caught up and then you, oh I
have to ask permission for this Google
back, right? So, there's two of the six,
I'm making these numbers up, of course.
Two of the six people actually signed up
for Harvey the day they were told and
then never went back to it all. They're
very happy with the way they work. They
work that way all day, every day. Two of
the six log in and use a little bit. And
two of the six use it all the time. The
only way I can even begin to understand
if that software is valuable is by
knowing that data passively without
asking those folks the question and then
asking everyone the same questions about
productivity and measure with amount of
work actually output. And if I take
those three things together then I can
begin to form an understanding of was
Harvey useful.
>> Right? You and I had a discussion with
someone uh where they were talking about
one of the ways they uh incent their
engineers at their company is they have
a leaderboard of the amount of money
each engineer spends on cloud code. And
the founder was talking about how uh he
went to one of his best engineers and
said, "I don't understand what's
happening. You're one of our best
engineers. Why aren't you spending any
money with uh cursor? I'm sorry, not
cloud code. Why aren't you spending any
money with cursor? I I really don't get
what's going on." And so that that was
an example of for these companies where
they're very developer heavy,
>> right?
>> You probably don't need us. If you're a
very developer heavy company, probably
measuring amount of money spent on
cursor plus your kind of normal

management understanding of is this
person actually working? If they come in
for two hours a day, you may be happy
with that, you may not. That's going to
be company specific and lifestyle
specific and culture specific. But
you're in the office. I see you're
there. You're not spending any amount
money on cursor. what's up right we have
these metrics the issue though is we see
this explosion of there's hundreds of AI
tools
>> and companies have hundreds of roles and

so that's why we want to try and replace
you know the Mackenzie corporate health
index or tal Watson or the Accenture
surveys with some real useful data
around AI but I think that kind of
cursor example really crystallized in my
mind what you'd want to be able to do
for a whole company which is how much
did this person work so I have that qual
you know I have that quantitative
judgment qualitatively as a matter
manager, right? We're not replacing
this. Did they do a good job? And then
fundamentally, did they use the tools?
And when you take those three things
together, that's the only way you're
going to have measurement. And like I
said, when you think about my, you know,
## Surveys vs. Behavioral Data (24:18–27:38)
micro world of if you really think JP
Morgan is going to go from spending 18
billion in it to 30 billion or 40
billion, the CFO is not just going to
say no problem. Right. Today, our
customer is a CIO. I think over time,
our customer becomes a partnership with
the CIO and the CFO. The numbers are
just big.
>> Yeah.
>> It's like cloud spend. the numbers are
just so big, people are going to pay
attention. It's going way beyond
experimental.
>> Well, and obviously the companies
themselves, like if you ask any company
that is trying to sell you anything and
you ask them, does your product work,
they will probably 99 times out of 99
say like, of course it does, right? That
like it's the best. It's the best. You
need to have an independent arbiter.
>> Um, and that that's where you guys come
in. But kind of like double clicking on
this this point before, it's almost like
reinforcement learning at a companywide
level, right? Of what is the outcome
that I'm looking for? And sometimes it's
clear, right? Right. So, um, and this is
where the the measurement and target
thing is also relevant because it's like
I want you to write more lines of code.
Whoa, if that's there's a measurement of
like how many lines of code were
written, but if it becomes the target,
then you're just like writing gobbly
good code and like you're
>> for sales it's very easy. I want you to
sell more stuff, but there's a lot of
latency between like you go talk to a
customer and then you go collect money.
So you might have targets in between,
you might have measurements in between
if you're a lawyer, draft more
contracts. So I guess how do you try to
define the goals? Because some of them
are just like it's kind of I think of it
as like background information that's
going through. It's like emails that are
being sent or you know Slacks that were

sent or Google Docs that were edited.
like there are these key like there are
these very very clear measurements but
those aren't necessarily outputs. So

first to your point on measurement this
is why I said earlier if you think about
anytime
true third-party measurement exists

there's this interesting dynamic and we
saw this at com scorecore but everyone
has seen this anytime they tried to
build a third party measurement company
omnature saw this in the early days
Google at some point fought it and then
actually bought urchin and built Google
analytics right because it turned out
it's actually good when your customers
can track value if what you do is
actually valuable right
>> and so my general perspective is I think
Today a lot of the AI companies probably
look a scance at us but I think over
time certainly the AI tools that
actually provide value are going to love
us right the way you will ultimately
unlock real enterprise budget is because

people believe these tools are actually
valuable so what we do today and this is

a journey right the company's about a
year old so what we do today is we work
with all of our customers say look here
are the baseline productivity questions
that are gold standard that people have
asked for 70 years you know there's pros
and cons to them but this is you have to
start somewhere. This is where we start
and let's define a set of metrics for
each of your uh departments. One of the
things we've found that actually seems
to matter not as a metric that companies
share with their employees because then
you have the good hearts law problem but
as an actual reality on the ground is

fundamental responsiveness. There is an
element of I spend some amount of money
on my legal department and I am happy

with the amount of productivity they do
today. So there is an element of unless
I'm trying to fire lawyers, which I'm
not, you can argue I how would I measure

the value of software? I guess my
lawyers might be happier, but I don't
have a churn problem there. So frankly,
why should I do this? And so what we
## Interdepartmental Responsiveness & Real-World Metrics (27:38–30:00)
found is one of the things we found is
just almost an interdep departmental
SLA, which is it turns out if I roll out
these tools and I'm not firing employees
because one way to look at this is could
I fire half my lawyers. Turns out
companies don't really like firing
people. Companies do fire people if they
have to, but I've actually never met a
CFO that got excited about firing 30% of
the workforce. Outside of call centers,
that's a different issue we could talk
about. Like companies treat their call
center employees different from the rest
of their employees. But outside of call
centers, I've never met a CFO who was if
you went to a CFO and said, "You can
fire half your FPNA people." He doesn't
want to fire Tina. He knows Tina. He's
met Tina's husband and children. He
doesn't want to fire Tina. He'd like
Tina to be happier and more productive.
And actually, he'd like her to do a
great job and never quit, right?
Companies don't really like churn. So
one of the metrics we found that people
seem quite excited about is just did
this raise or lower the interdep
departmental responsiveness. So a
measure would be am I now comfortable
sending more things to legal. Right? If
I'm going to keep my legal department
the same size I'm not going to start
suing more people. We're talking about
companies here not law firms where is a
different measure of productivity right
there. Cost centers not profit centers.
So one thing to do it is did over time
because my lawyers are now more
productive are other departments asking
them more questions are they getting
their responses faster when I'm in

product and I'm asking for input from
engineers are they responding more
quickly right that is a that is a good
way for me to see behaviorally we become
more productive that's not lines of code
now by the way I agree if you expose the
metric and say hey you better be
responsive people can lie they can send
slack messages back and forth but what
I'd really like to understand is as a
app. Which of my departments use these
tools more? And do they become more
responsive to my other departments
because there's an element of when
you're at a big company, people know
this. It's one of the reasons small
companies do so well in innovation.
There's just a giant coordination
problem for all of these companies. And
we know this. And you know, in Silicon
Valley, it's fun to make fun of these
companies. But actually, every
entrepreneur's secret dream is to become
so large that they have a giant
bureaucratic company. Of course, Google
did not plan to have a giant bureaucracy
30 years ago. they just became so
successful they now do have a giant
bureaucracy.
>> Right. And uh you know kind of that
that's kind of a good segue into perhaps
the the state of AI enterprise. Right.
So you went on this whole like listen
you talked about what 350 people.
>> Yeah. We we interviewed 350 heads of IT

at major companies.
>> Um and across the whole the whole gamut,
## Enterprise AI Adoption: What the Data Shows (30:00–32:59)
right? It was it wasn't just uh you know
kind of Silicon Valley companies that
>> not not I mean in all honesty
my whole career basically I spent a
couple years helping my friend at Carbon
and I spent a year trying to fix
wine.com but other than that my whole
career has been selling software to
large companies mostly large companies
or older companies yes there's the
occasional Silicon Valley company that
grows very quickly but if you are in the
Fortune 500 you are going to be 20 plus
years old 99% of the time right and so

if you're going to sell to someone with
more than a thousand employees. They're
almost by definition an older company.
>> Yeah. So, what may maybe give us the
highlights of of what you learned.
>> Sure. We we saw a bunch of different
things and you know, people have seen
this before. I I actually don't think of
this. You'll see people turn this into
kind of clickbaity fear-mongering
things. I don't I don't really think of
it that way. So, first of all, we saw
like is we know this from Gardner.
There's like $700 billion being spent in
enterprise AI. It's growing very very
quickly. It's going to keep growing
quickly. And one of the things we found
is something like 70% of leaders we
talked to said we are sure we are
wasting money here. It's being spent so
quickly. And by the way, shame on us. We
had no system to measure this in the
first place. I'll get back to the report
in a second, but I was talking to a
customer today. Uh why did we sign them
as a customer? They're a very profitable
business owned by a PE firm and their

bosses, the their PE owners, gave them
five things they had to do this year.
And one of the five was adopt AI across
the organization. And he said, "Every
board meeting, I go in for my other four
metrics, I have some report of how are
we doing against those reports." And on
AI, all I have is the amount of stuff we
bought, right? It's not.
>> So, yes, yes, I'm doing great. But it
turned out
>> we have a large family of AI. We adopted
all these. It's all great. But it turns
out we want to actually do it. And so
what we found is these leaders like
maybe they are right that 70% of their
projects are failing
regardless of their right. It's a giant
problem. They feel that way because they
have no system to figure it out in the
first place. No one believes 75% of
their ad spend is failing. It's not
because their ad planners are smarter
than their AI buyers. It's because there
are 20 years of systems in place to help
me understand when I buy this ad
campaign, when I spend this money, when
I do this app install, whatever it is,
did it actually drive value for me? And
we just don't really have that in AI,
like I said, outside of some very, very
specific verticals. And so really, the
biggest thing we found was kind of three
things. One, you saw the AI spend. Two,
something like I said, they believe 70s
something% of AI projects are wasted.
But the other thing we found is
basically 80 85% I can't remember 80 85%

of the companies we talked to said they
really believe they only have the next
18 months to either become a leader or
fall behind. So I think one of the
things one of the reasons you've seen
this giant unlock and budget is there's
tremendous anxiety at these enterprises
going like we're going to lose if we
don't adopt this stuff yet. So we're
adopting it quickly. We have no
particular idea if it's succeeding. Our
employees aren't really using it. by the
way a forgotten group in the company for
all of this AI and uh from my last
## Employee Anxiety & Training Gaps (32:59–37:31)
company we built a very very large HR uh
technology company uh we sold into heads
of HR touched all the employees in the
company but we sold into heads of HR and
so as we've talked to a lot of our old
customers who aren't really our
customers today but they're influencers
what they will all say at all of these
large companies is hey our employees are
really worried it's not even they're
worried they're going to lose their job
there's a base level of worry about AI
and the economy all that stuff it's not
even they're worried they're going to
lose their job it's just they're getting
told to use a new system all day every
day, right? Generally, if you work in a
large company, there's one or two new
systems initiatives a year. Now, there's
20 new tools. They don't know, they
don't know what they're allowed to do,
and they have no training. How do they
actually how do I get people using these
tools? And so, you have this weird we
you have this weird almost perfect
storm. It's why we're excited about
Laren. It's why you're excited about
Laren. You have this perfect storm of
tremendous growth in budget, tremendous
anxiety that none of it is working,
tremendous anxiety from their employees
about what they're even allowed to do.
And so what we're trying to do is I
don't think we solve all of that. That
would be an absurd thing to say, but I
think we really help with all of that
about like what is your plan to measure
this in the first place? Did anyone use
it? Did they become more productive when
they did? How do you give them the tools
to use it more?
>> Yeah. Well, and that that kind of last
point is super interesting as well
because it's like there's the did it
work, how well did it work, you know,
what are the measurements, make sure
that the measurements don't become
targets, like all the stuff that we just
talked about. And then to use the
metaphor of my my son who cheated on his
math homework, um there are people that
are just like, "Wow, like they're
they're the go-getters in the company."
This is actually why I am convinced that
AI is underhyped. Yes. You know, we have
our little group chat where we have
another friend who's like, "Oh, all this
stuff is overhyped and it's going to
zero."
>> Totally. Every time I use AI, it's
amazing
>> because you go, it doesn't it has not
diffused. you you have like the
19-year-old kid or you know my my
13-year-old son I was like wow normally
homework would take me two hours right
>> now it takes me one second right and
obviously that's bad right like I'm not
using him as the uh that's why we
confiscated his iPhone right but
>> there are these productivity unlocks
where it's probably not going to happen
top down
>> sure
>> it's like somebody in the company and
sometimes again I I not to like
oversimplify human behavior but it's
like I want to be lazy and I want to be
rich yes
>> right like these are the two things that
are motivating people and like I found
this tool that allows me to be lazier
and richer that actually helps the
company. Yes. So not the math, not the
cheating, right? It's like you're
getting like I can now I know that my
boss was thinking this would take eight
hours. I've figured out a way to do it
in 5 seconds
>> and it's really good by the way.
>> It's really good. And the worst thing
that can happen this is like the inverse
of everything that we just talked about.
The worst thing that can happen is that
guy keeps it a secret.
>> Right.
>> Right. Because like and and he might be
afraid. It's like, oh, am I allowed to
use this? But what you should do, this
is how AI will go from underhyped to
like correctly hyped um and correctly
diffused is it's like there's somebody
at every big company who has figured out
this like I could do something in one
minute that used to take eight hours. We
need to like make this person a hero,

memorialize this and push it out through
the entire company. So like how do you
do that?
>> This was my point on the uh what we're
doing on the AI engagement side and that
that's that's a great question. This is
my point on what we're doing on the A
engagement side. This is one of these
areas where everyone's interests are
aligned. The employee that's working
very hard loves recognition. And by the
way, he'd like his co-workers to come up
to speed. Um the employee that's scared

wants support and wants training. And by
the way, companies actually want their
employees to be more productive. I know
it's a fun thing for a subset of people
to tweet about, but like I said, I have
yet to find the CEO in all of I've spent
30 years selling things to CEOs. I've
yet to find the CEO who wakes up in the
morning and wants to run a smaller
company. He wants more employees and he
wants more profit. He wants more
revenue. But contrary to popular belief,
they want more employees. They like
running big companies. They do. You can
find old interviews of Larry Page
talking about his plan for how Google
was going to have a million employees
one day. And he was spending a lot of
time thinking about self-driving cars to
move the cars around the parking lot
because this is before remote work.
>> And literally where were the million
employees going to park all the cars?
And I remember I read that 15 years ago
like that stuck in the back of my mind
of I have never met a CEO who wants to
run a smaller company. It's one of the
reasons by the way totally unrelated
point in the capital markets. One of the
reasons if you ever meet a CEO of a
conglomerate they never want to break up
the conglomerate because they like
running bigger companies. It's more fun
right? I've run I've had my companies
grow. They're fun when they're bigger.
It is it's super cool. And so from an

employee standpoint, what we built with
## The Nexus Product & Safe AI Usage (37:31–41:08)
this Nexus product is effectively a
product where we said or I'll I'll I'll
use an anecdote. I was in the UK in July
uh and uh I went on a bunch of sales
calls and I was talking to someone at a
bank very large very reg European bank
is among the most regulated folks in the
world least you know fast to adopt new
technology for for good reasons honestly
and they were telling me a story about
how they had it was a 28-y old guy I

don't remember what level that makes you
an investment bank so let's say a
director but I don't 28-y old guy who
was using chat GPT really really well in
the investment banking side of the and
they had him create a 30 slide deck and
they did a global call for everyone in
the investment bank for this guy to
spend an hour walking people through how
to use chatbt. I'm sure that was very
cool for him, but that's absurd. That's
an absurd way to hope people adopt
worldchanging technology. Another absurd
thing to do is to go out and buy some
LMS course that HR is going to buy that

you know the secret to a lot of LMS is
other than things you must do or you
will lose your job like sexual
harassment training, HIPPA training and
certain or no one no one does it. They
they just don't go. And so how do I
actually get people using these tools
and this was my point from earlier is
you want to help them a not look dumb
and b know they won't get fired. And so
what we effectively did is built these
wrappers that exist around the models.
So we don't tell people to use quaude or
to use Gemini or to use catchy fatigue.
Then the other thing we built because
again people are also worried about
getting fired. They're worried about
getting fired because the economy
because of AI because whatever it's a
new tool I would like to not get fired.
By the way when you're talking about
European banks there's a lot of
regulation that is a legitimate concern
of if our employees do the wrong thing
we will get fined. Forget whether you
fire them. These companies don't want to
get fined. And so the other thing we did
is we we basically trained our own kind
of customized llama model to block
people from asking questions that are
illegal or the company doesn't want you
to. So we're not talking about hackers
here. True bad actors in the company has
plenty of security solutions. What we're
really talking about is the x% of the
people who I'm in people ops in HR at a

large company. I'm supposed to do a
workforce analysis. Am I allowed to go
into chat GPT and load in our full
employee database with race and gender?
I don't know. I would like to not get
fired. Maybe I'm allowed to and maybe
I'm not. And by the way, I think it's
incumbent on the company to say to our
employees, here is a safe space. Nothing
you can do here is going to get you
fired. So we Oh, Alex, you're not

allowed to up that has social security
data. Don't don't share that. You're not
allowed to ask that prompt because in
Europe, we're not allowed to use HR.
We're not allowed to use AI to write
employee reviews. I don't know if that's
a good law or bad law. I I didn't write
the law. But there are companies that
look at the EU AI regulations and say to
themselves, our read of the regulation,
I'm not going to, you know, prosecute
that. Our read of the regulation is we
believe it's illegal and we will get
fined if our employees use AI tools to
do employee reviews. So great, if I am a
European-based company, I want my
employees using AI, I have to block them
from using it for those use cases. And
so what we've tried to build is this
almost like harness to say you can be
more productive. you're not going to
look dumb, you're going to be more
productive, and you're not going to make
any mistakes that get you fired. And so
what we found is that actually drives
more AI usage, surprising literally no
one. And from a company standpoint, what
do you want? A, I want the usage, and B,
I want to build up that IP of what
really works my company. It's a total
unlock. Same thing on the coding side,
right? Uh, you know, cursor has taken
mediocre engineers and made them good,
but it's taken amazing engineers and
made them gods, right? And so our goal
should be how do we help people get much
more productive with all of this? How do
we help them use Kurser more
effectively, Harvey more effectively? We
started with all of the LLMs more
## The Future of Work: Job Loss or Job Creation? (41:08–43:40)
effectively.
>> Yeah. Um so maybe we could talk I mean

this is a little bit philosophical but
future of work. Um because to a certain
extent like all right you're you're the
me like if you're the measurement
>> sure
>> like the measurement inevitably will
become a little bit more of a target.
Um, and I I always like to kind of
remind people that I think it was 97 98%
of Americans when the Constitution was
ratified were farmers
>> and they all lost their jobs um due to
these pesky things like the tractor and
fertilizer and all these things and I
think the the average life expectancy
was like 35 and most children died in
childirth or shortly thereafter. It's
like you know we things have changed but
this is what uh this is what technology
brings you. Um, I mean, nobody knows the
answer to this, but given that you're
you're in char you're in charge of a
company that's measuring AI productivity
and human productivity and kind of AI
and humans working together, I mean,
what what's your timetable for like how
fast things change? Are we going to see,
you know, net new jobs create like every
and by the way, like behind every one of
these, there are all sorts of jobs that
start becoming around that didn't exist
before. So maybe that's kind of part two
of the question because like the job
that we have right now like you know
filming a podcast like that wasn't a job
like 200 years like there's so many jobs
that just like nobody could even think
of. So so I guess like where do you
think things are going and like what
types of maybe to put a nuance on it
like what types of like future jobs do
you see in and around this like new
stuff?
>> So I don't buy for a second there's
going to be large scale job loss because
of AI frankly because of what we've seen
through all of history which is just
flatout capitalism.
If my two choices are I can maintain my
base level of productivity but fire a
bunch of my employees and be more
profitable that is a fine idea in the
short term if I'm there's probably a
good idea for a PE firm to go along go
around and buy a bunch of minorly
profitable companies fire half their
employees and make them more profitable
but that's what PE firms have done for a
long time for non-competitive companies
anyway yet employment has still
increased right so you can argue we've
always had a function or for the last 40
years you can argue we've had a function
whose goal is to take underperforming
companies and fire a bunch of employees,
right? And let's let's say that that's
what PE firms have done and that's you
know what AI could theoretically do yet
employment has increased. So I I don't
buy an AI and look it's philosophical
and you know I don't have any special
expertise because I am building a
measurement company but I don't buy it
because your competitor across the
street is not going to fire all those
employees. He's just going to do more
with those employees and he's going to
## The Competitive Advantage of AI (43:40–52:45)
kill your business. Right? I mean this
is the um Jeff Bezos your margin is my
opportunity line to the extent that AI

is going to drive up your margin that
will be all of your competitor's
opportunity to be less profitable and

compete with you. So it other than some
very niche monopolistic I can fire
everybody you know oneman firm like will
we have onewoman firms that do a billion
in revenue probably but today we have
very profitable you know one man
onewoman operations not many people work
at the Joe Rogan podcast I I don't think
that many people work for Ben Thompson
Incorporated and yet I imagine those are
quite profitable businesses the best I
can tell so that that that's amazing and
there'll be a ton of opportunity to be
more successful solo entrepreneur so I
absolutely believe there'll be even more
entrepreneurs, but at a very high level,
I just don't believe the Fortune 500
will employ fewer people in 30 years
than they do today because the ones that
try and cut all the people will no
longer be in the Fortune 500. So, I just
flatly because we live in a competitive
world. It's we haven't seen any proof
yet.
>> Yeah.
>> That the economy is zero sum, right?
Maybe, right? You can argue that, but we
haven't seen any proof yet. GDP keeps
increasing. It increases slower in some
places and faster in other places, but
it's generally grown. employment has
generally grown. I just don't know why
you'd believe that this time is
different because the competitive point
of view I the tech is different. The
tech is amazing. But fundamentally what
will almost definitively happen. There

is an interesting theoretical question
that you know is more like a you know I

don't know Ivy League grad school you
know discussion about wouldn't it be
more fun as a society? Wouldn't we all
be happier if everyone agreed we'd work
half as much and be just as productive
as we are today? I don't know, maybe.
But that's not human nature, right? And
so, I'm not even sure that's true. I I
tend to believe in the Tyler Cowan point
that all that really matters is growth.
And so, my general perspective is

you as a VC would just never get excited
if one of your companies came in here
and said, "Hey, we got to 100 million in
revenue." And you know what? because AI
tools are so good, we're going to fire
90% of our employees and we're going to
make 90 million in profit. You would not
be excited with that entrepreneur
because you know that Sequoia is going

to fund a direct competitor to that
company who's going to keep hiring,
who's going to be happy with 10% margins
and is going to destroy your company.
And we we all know this. So I I don't
it's one of these things of like,
>> you know, there's a lot of fun headlines
about oh AI and then you have to have
the counterpoint of oh it's going to
take the jobs and oh kids these days.

I don't know like when you we all know
this we've all seen this you can find
articles about when TV came out it was
the end of reading when newspapers came
out it was the end of conversation so I
do think it is scary that new tools are
coming out and it is impacting the
entire globe of all knowledge workers
everywhere
so what so I think there'll be
opportunities to be podcasters there
probably will be more plumbers there
will be a lot more employment around
building data centers right there's
going to be a whole set of engineers
maybe we will need a lot more
astronauts. Elon says we're going to
Mars. Like, someone is going to have to
scrub the toilets in the space station
and someone is going to have to pilot
the plane, the pilot the ship to the
space station.
>> The self-driving
self-driving spaceships. Um,
>> so by the way, there is a chance I will
turn out to be wrong. And in that case,
I don't know, maybe I'll spend more time
on vacation.
>> Well, it's interesting. Uh, I I talked
to this economist Ed Glazier. Um, I
think he's at Harvard and he was saying
uh I I asked him this question. It's
like, you know, what's going to happen
with jobs and, you know, how do you
compare this to everything else? It's
like, well, what's really interesting is
that this is arguably the first time

that the job losses might be borne by

like white collar super educated.
>> That's why everybody gets scared.
>> Well, but but so he actually had a
different framing on it. So, so yes,
agreed.
>> But, uh, almost tautologically
hypereducated people are hypereducated.
Sure.
>> So, should be able to rejigger
themselves and do something else.
versus in all of these previous
revolutions where it's like you have
somebody that really has no skills,
right?
>> And just like showed up at work with no
skills and got paid.
>> Yes.
>> And there are a lot of jobs that look
like that when there's tremendous labor
shortages. So if you were doing anything
in 1849 apparently in California, like

boom, right? Right. It's like there's
just like, oh, you're a human. You have
a need someone with a pitch like go do
this or just like you know you see that
line over there like uh yeah like
straighten it out. So um but what's
different is that you yes it's scary for
some people but like everything right
now and maybe robots will work better in
the future but like everything right now
is bit manipulation going after or

augmenting I would argue more augmenting
white collar hypereducated people by
virtue of the fact that they're
hypereducated um it might not like this

does not mean that like you know what
what happened to Detroit right it's like
that that actually wasn't about
automation that was about like the
Japanese built better cars. There were a
lot of reasons why that happened. But
what do you do with somebody who had
like a very very highpaying job but
actually didn't have that many skills
and now they lost that job? Well,
because they don't have any skills, they
can't find another job. Whereas, if you
are highly skilled, you will find
something else to do. And I do think
there's an element of look, there are
certainly a set of people who were
pretty highly educated. They were in
good classes. They got into a good
school, whatever that meant. They got a
good job. They worked pretty hard in
their 20s, a little less hard in their
30s, and a little less hard in their
40s, but they're paid pretty well. And

those people probably are a little
uncomfortable today because their
career, frankly, there's there's some
professions that just require continuing
ed education. By the way, if you're an
electrician or a plumber or a doctor or
a lawyer, some of these professions just
require constant upkeep and constant
education. That's not true in a lot of
professions. There are a lot of jobs
where you get to 40 or 50 and you can
keep doing a good job, but you don't
really have to learn much new. You you
can just keep doing a good job doing
what you're doing and you don't have to
learn much new. And that's probably
quite uncomfortable. I I acknowledge it
is quite uncomfortable for those people.
But to your point, they're educated.
They have skills. We have much more of a
knowledge economy. So I don't
necessarily have the issue of I
literally I have this house in Detroit.
The jobs are now in Knoxville, right?
Forget Japan. The jobs are now in
Knoxville. I don't want to move to
Knoxville, right? We all know the data
on mobility and housing costs and all
that. So sure,
>> but at the end of the day, to your
point, yes, there's a set of people
who've probably been slowly working less
and pushing themselves less, and now
they have to push themselves more. And
that just is I my joke all the time I I
won't say the company I use but part of
my sales pitch for Laridan when I'm
talking about this I say look when we
talk to employees you know look your
average employee is a 42-year-old
associate brand manager and if you ask
them what they want out of AI they do
want it to go away their number one risk
wish would be that it would just go away
I'd like that I because I like yesterday
but we'd make a lot of money if we had
the power to make AI go away super big
blackmail business but we don't have
that power so all we can do is give you
the tools to use these things better and
help you be more productive and help you
as a manager understand if your team is
using these tools better and so you know
my macro point is I just don't really
believe there will be widescale mass
unemployment
might an individual have to push
themselves more yeah for for sure and

some of those will be sad about that and
like um that same thing is true in the
entertainment industry right that that
jobs have moved and jobs have shifted
and people don't watch movies the way
they used to and you know TV seasons
used to be 22 episodes and now they're
because consumer preferences have
changed

a part on law and order, right? That
probably is uncomfortable. I'm not being
callous. Sure, there's many ways it will
impact my life negatively. But I I just
don't buy that they won't be more
educated.
>> Yeah. A lot of this actually predates
AI. Uh there there's this great uh
article or interview with the CEO of
Waste Management. Okay.
>> Before Chat GPD came out. Um, and he was
saying, "I have unlimited like I get
resumes every day from somebody who has
an MBA and wants to work like in our
office for and like the they're like
negotiating against themselves like the
price keeps going down there." Um, so
100 jobs for 100 applications for every
opening or I forgot what he said.
>> I need to hire truck drivers. Uh,
somebody who and not just like
self-driving like I need somebody who
actually is collecting the trash. like
that's what waste management does for
$150,000 a year. I can't find them.
>> So, it is kind of interesting how how
things have flipped. But I I guess the
other thing that I would say is uh I
would I would almost argue that a lot of
AI's problem right now in terms of
diffusing into the workplace. It's
almost a product marketing problem.
Sure.
>> Right. Where it's like, okay, AI can do
anything. Right.
>> Right. But I'm not looking for anything.
Like I say like, hey, I can do anything.
And you're like you're like I don't need
you. It's like no, I could do this one
thing very very oh you do that and and
like that that needs like this is kind

of I think once you have more of these
articulations of what can be done and
## The Product Marketing Problem in AI (52:45–54:00)
like the things that have really kind of
gone hyperrowth it's like oh like I have
AI it does everything oh I will help you
code
>> I will help you code better I have this
chatbot for yeah look a long long time
ago it's funny when you get old uh a
long long time ago I was like I said I
was the first guy at comscore and
comscore's sales pitch in the early
Comscore for those that don't know,
right, basically had all the data for
everything that was happening on the
internet. And so the founders were true
geniuses and they basically knew
everything that was happening everywhere
on the internet. And our sales pitch in
the early days would be we know
everything. I mean obviously not, but
would it basically be like we know
everything. What would you like to know?
And it turned out that wasn't a really
good sales pitch. You would sometimes
accidentally run into someone who would
go oh my god I need to know this. Could
you do this? And we'd say yes we could
and there you go. But it turned out we
only had a couple sellers that could
figure that out in real time. And then
it turned out if we said we can tell you
the market share for Visa verse
Mastercard verse others in Japan. Turns

out Visa really wants to know that. But
I can also tell you the share for your
pharmaceutical drug versus others in
research online. Turns out they also
want to know that. Uh after
>> I'm gonna get it wrong, but Ford had
some giant issue with Bridgestone tires
setting on fire. It turns out they
## The Importance of Specific Use Cases (54:00–57:08)
really do want to know that did
employees did search for forward get
worse because of bridge home, right? So
people do want to know these specific
like I said I I think that's exactly the
right way to think about it is you need
this product marketing problem. Look,
it's why we're so focused on what's
happening. Are they more productive? How
do you get them to use it more? We can
actually do a lot of things but you
can't sell things that way. And that's
that's more like general
entrepreneurally advice, but it turns
out building something amazing that
people don't know how to use mostly
doesn't work unless it does, which is
chat GPT, right? So, one in a million
times it does work out. Facebook chat
>> GP there. It's just like it's magic. If
you show somebody a magic trick or you
get somebody addicted, right? Um, and

you'll guess which one I'm referring to
for for which, but um, the if you ever
watch Seinfeld, y there's this great
episode where Jerry buys his father a
Sharp Wizard, which was like an early
Palm Pilot kind. It was like this early
smart computer like in the 1990s. Never
went on to to great things, but it did
everything. It was like, you know, he
could run these applications. And
Jerry's trying to explain it to his dad,
and he's like, "Well, I I don't get it.
What does it do?" He's like, "Well, like
look here. It has a tip calculator."
He's like, "Oh my god, a tip
calculator." And then he explains it to
all of his friends. He's like, "Look at
this. my my son, he's a comedian, he's
doing great. He got me a tip calculator
and Jerry's like, "No, it does other
things."
>> And it often ends up being frustrating
for the company that does the other
things because they aspire to have this
like more broad horizontal platform, but
what we kind of need is more of these uh
these tip calculator things. Um so I
know I know we're we're
>> Yes, thank you. But but actually why
don't we just uh is there anything that
we haven't talked about that you want to
get in like a little soliloquy that you
can uh
>> No, I look I think I'll leave you with
two thoughts. The one one related to
something you brought up in the
conversation and the professor but one
related to Laridan. So look my general
perspective is anytime you see some
giant shift in budget you're going to
build a set of very important but very
boring tools. What's actually happening?
Are people more productive? How do I get
them to use it more? And you know
there's there's a ton of business there.
And then I'll leave you with a leave you
with an unrelated thought to your to
your Harvard professor. So as you said
uh our kids go to the same school and uh
my oldest kid is in 12th grade and just
got into college and he got into this
top choice and he's very proud of
himself and it's a very highly rated
school and I'm very happy for him. And
he came home and he said, "Dad, look at
this ranking." And he showed me the new
US News World Reports ranking that
showed the different rankings. And um
and I was like, his name's Henry. I
said, "Henry, I'm very proud of you.
There's going to be a lot of different
rankings over a lot of different years.
And there's only one thing you have to
know for sure. Whatever the ranking
says, everyone knows number one is
Harvard. And so it doesn't matter. Don't
get excited. Whatever it says, wherever
it puts your school, everyone always
knows whatever the rank is, Harvard's
number one. I did not go to Harvard.