## Intro (0:00–1:12)
The thing that is fundamentally
different about this product cycle is
that the software itself can actually do
the work and therefore the market
opportunity for software today is no
longer just IT spend. It's largely
labor. It's not like all the jobs will
go away. I actually think that's not
going to happen at all. There are a lot
of things where if I could hire somebody
for a dollar to do this task, I would
100% do that. I've never been able to
hire somebody for a dollar. Now I can
hire software for a dollar. While it is
important to understand model
capabilities and what's happening in the
frontier, you still need to figure out
how to apply that technology.
>> I think modes matter just as much as
they did before. The one change is that
in this supply demand equation, there's
conceptually more supply of software on
the because the barrier to creating
this stuff has gone down dramatically.
>> I think AI is an incredible tool for
differentiation. The idea that a voice
agent can speak in 50 languages fully
compliantly 24/7 highly differentiated

you know certainly versus the human
theess of that capability in my opinion
is not a source of defensibility it is
just so consensus like cloud was not
consensus mobile was not consensus and
that's why the incumbents kind of
screwed up.
## Do moats still matter? (1:12–2:42)
We've spent a lot of time talking about
moes and how moes have evolved and are
there still even moes in in this new
era. And so why don't you reflect and
share some of the conversations we've
been having or some of your your
perspectives on this broader broader
moat question. Maybe David we'll we'll
start with you.
>> Maybe just to jump right into it with
with a hot take. I think moes still
matter and I think a lot of the moes um
>> still matter.
>> Still matter. Exactly. Um and I think
they're largely the same. Right. I think
you know I often think about this
between uh sort of differentiation and
defensibility. I think AI is an
incredible tool for differentiation,
right? The idea that, you know, a voice
agent can speak in 50 languages fully
compliantly 247, highly differentiated,

you know, certainly versus the human.
Um, but the source, the AIS of that
capability, in my opinion, is not a
source of defensibility. It it's largely
differentiation. The defensibility of a
software product resides in my opinion
you know from owning the end workflow
you know from the context in which that
it's it's applied you know becoming the
system of record having a network effect
you know deeply embedding yourself
within your customer and I think these
were the heruristics that were always
you know things that we would always
look for when evaluating software
companies I think the thing that is
fundamentally different about this
product cycle is that the software
itself can actually do the work right
and therefore the market opportunity for
for software today is no longer or just
IT spend. It's it's largely labor.
>> The challenge often has been that

everybody can build something at small
## Data network effects only work at mega scale (2:42–5:01)
scale and a lot of the they kind of I
wouldn't call them network effects but
some of the defensibility
modes only become uh apparent at large
large scale. So like a lot of people
talk about like okay take an example
from like the the long long time ago pre
prei era um if I am building an

anti-fraud company and I've seen lots of
people right am I going to do a better
job than a net new anti-fraud company
that's seen a few people and the reason
why this would be called a data network
effect although um there's another
podcast that Martine and I did a long
time ago debating whether or not data
network effects are real but it's
something that really it's almost like
gravity gravity actually like one atom

actually has exerts gravity on you but
you only really see it at like very very
large scale like the earth you notice
the gravity the sun you you notice the
gravity Jupiter you notice the gravity
you don't notice it for like that glass
and it's the same thing for a lot of
these data network effects where at very
very small scale when you have 20
companies that are all saying I'm going
to stop fraud like all right they're all
building the same things they all have
the same algorithms but when you've seen
four billion people and you know like
these people are bad Now you can sell

each incremental customer each customer
of your anti-fraud technology to to use
this example because you've seen more
customers and you can get actually
better results. But the challenge is
that a lot of these these moes only
really are evident at mega mega mega
scale. And the same argument would
apply. It's like oh like I've seen four
customers. David's seen three. I've seen
four. He's seen three. Pick pick my
software. But it's like you've seen four
customers. That means there are eight
billion customers you haven't seen.
there eight billion customers he hasn't
seen like what's the difference whereas
um at mega scale it's like all right
I've seen four billion customers he's
seen one billion customers well it's
actually kind of easy to see that the
results of my product will be better but
that's at scale um and a lot of the
question is like on the 0ero to one
phase it's hard to make the argument
that like I have better like if it's
fraud I have better fraud underwriting
if it's you know AI do the work like
I've done more phone calls to a
particular type of customer and
therefore I do a job. It's hard to make
that argument at subscale. So, and this

is often the challenge is that it's kind
of self-evident that if you become the
biggest company in the world, then you
have a moat. But how do you get to the
## The ankle biter problem (5:01–5:48)
scale where you actually could show that
you can't get to that scale if you have
9 million ankle biters um and you are
yourself an ankle biter of just we are
trying to get to scale and nobody can
because it's so easy to actually produce
software. And that's kind of the that's
the double-edged sword of AI is that
it's very very easy to produce software.
Um, everybody can go do something that
is a very obvious idea because it's
obvious everybody's going to go build
it. But can you get to the type of scale
where you actually could show a mode and
that that has gotten, you know, arguably
harder because you have a larger end
count of potential c sorry uh potential
competitors. Um, but if you get to mega
scale, then you could show the moat and
that that's kind of the zero to one
versus one to end.
>> And maybe talk about what's different
## Are incumbents more or less defensible? (5:48–7:14)
about defensibility for even the the
bigger players today in the AI era than
it was in let's say the web two era. Are
the companies today more defensible,
less defensible, or how should we think
about sort of the strength?
>> I don't know. I I think the the less
defensible part I mean this is this is
why a lot of enterprise software has
gotten beaten up in the public markets.
It's kind of two reasons. is number one
is that if you're doing per seat pricing
like how do you come up with a pricing
model that people feel is fair and a lot
of it is just psychology and for
whatever reason for the last 20 years
it's like per seat per month with like
uh you know you you've heard my joke the
the tall grande venty model of like
software uh charging it's like somehow
that felt fair and whether that is fair
or not like I don't know but like people
are like oh yeah it's like $85 a seat
you know per month yeah okay that sounds
reasonable whereas if you if you propose
that pricing 40 years ago, you would
have been laughed out of town. So, this
just became the norm. Um, and the reason
why, as I was saying, public software
companies have been beaten up a little
bit is like, uhoh, maybe you won't sell
as many seats. Like, is Adobe going to
sell as many seats if now you don't have
to hire as many graphics designers? Or
is Zenesk going to sell as many seats if
the software just answers all the
queries? Like, the answer is no. It
doesn't mean that the companies are
toast. they might actually quadruple
their revenue because now they charge
per outcomes as opposed to charging
perceipats. But that's kind of part one.
Part two is wait a minute now everybody

can vibe code up a Zenesk competitor. So
## Will companies vibe code their own Zendesk? (7:14–8:48)
maybe companies will just start they'll
stop buying software. This one I don't
think we've seen at all. Um but I think
there is that like these two-sided um
these two risks. But to answer your
question, does defensibility change?
Well, if you now are able to code your
own software, like why am I paying like
your margin is my opportunity. Well,
look at the margin of software
companies. Like Salesforce has like an
80% gross margin. Like they should have
a 1% gross margin or you know nobody
should use Salesforce anymore. That that
would be the procase of Moes really
starting to disintegrate. But I don't
think we've seen that happen at all. Um
because it turns out people um on on the

one hand two things are actually
happening. One is that this is kind of
like Clay Christensen theory. It's like
the incumbents overshoot the market. So
the amount of features in Salesforce or
Zenesk or Netswuite, it way exceeds the

feature set that you need that any
individual customer needs because it's
meant to encompass. It's like all of
these weird edge cases and you kind of
see this if you use Microsoft Word. When
was the last time you wrote a book?
When? Never. Right. I haven't written a
book. It has all of these things. They
probably have 50 software engineers.
Yeah. make make but but if you do write
a book, guess what? Microsoft Word has
all these features just for book authors
to like make a table of contents or
something. It's like I don't use that.
So they they keep bundling more stuff in
there so they overshoot the market and
theoretically it's going to make it
easier for somebody but you know so that
but but kind of going back to what I
where I started with this topic. Um like
it turns out that this concept of I'm
## Why you won't vibe code Microsoft (8:48–10:09)
just going to vibe code Microsoft right
it's like there are all these there
there are these edge cases that you just
don't know about. So it it's actually,
you know, why don't you grow your own
food or weld your own aluminum or build
your own house. It's just it's kind of
easier to use this concept of
comparative advantage um and just say
I'm going to buy something off the
shelf. So anyway, so I think modes
matter just as much as they did before.
The the one change is that in this
supply demand equation, there's
conceptually more supply of software on
the come um because the the barrier to

creating this stuff has gone down
dramatically. I I think the flip side to
that too is that um while while there
will be more software and and again the
kind of marginal cost of producing
software is you know declining
asmtoically towards zero um the way that
these companies are getting more deeply
entrenched within their customers has
has differed because again the software
is doing the work and therefore in many
cases it's actually replacing labor. And
so if you've transitioned a team out
that has now become, you know, your
software, like you're now much more
dependent on that product to run your
business, um, you know, and again, you
know, is it more difficult to to replace
that software with another piece of
software or to rehire that team? I think
it's an open question, but again, the
software is is doing more of the work
and therefore, I think, getting more
deeply embedded within their customers.
>> Well, part part of it is just like the
Goldilock zone of pricing. So, um, and I
## The Goldilocks zone of pricing (10:09–11:21)
I wrote some tweet or whatever it's
called X thread about this a long time
ago. I call it the janitorial services
problem because if I went to you, you're
the CEO of a giant company where you
write your books, um, in the future. So,
you have a 300,000 person company. I
find you, I was like, Eric, I can get
your toilets 9% cleaner and save you 1%

on your toiletry spend or your your
janitorial services spend. Not only do
you not care, you don't even care
enough. you don't you won't even like
exercise the mental energy to find the
person in the company who does care,
right? And that means that your
janitorial services spend will never
change. And the problem is it's hard to
get in. The good news is it it's hard to
get out. Um whereas for something it's
like 90% of my profits go to like you

the or to I'm now 90% of your profits as

the CEO of GE. They're going to me. Your
number one priority is like getting the
hell off of me, right? And like doing
RFPs left and right. So part of it is
also just like how relevant this is. And
there are some companies that operate in
this Goldilock zone of irrelevance like
these janitorial services where even if
you have 9 million competitors like
they're just not going to go anywhere.
Which is why like a lot of the strategy
that we talk about internally is green
field, right? It's like those companies
## Greenfield strategy (11:21–13:32)
are they're they're stuck for good. Um,

is there a a high rate of new company
creation that will not use the crappy
old janitorial services company but will

actually resonate like your pitch of
like I will get your toilets cleaner and
I will charge you less money that really
resonates but that's that's not going to
resonate to the people that are using
the oldfashioned stuff.
>> What are examples of of of company or
space in the Goldilock zone and what was
an example of companies or spaces in the
green field zones?
>> Well, like payroll companies, right?
like um ADP and paychecks I mean these
are companies that are collectively
worth hundreds of billions of dollars um
very very profitable and how does pay
like you could do your own payroll
actually it's kind of a good metaphor
for software in general like why is it
that you have to like why can't I just
pay you you're my employee why can't I
just like cut you a check well because I
have to withhold taxes well how much tax
do I have to withhold well it depends
right and there is this like super
complicated lookup table it's like well
you live in this county but you spend
this many days in New York and this that
and the other thing oh and you you you
you you owe like child support and the
IRS is garnishing your wages, like all
of these things that are very
complicated. So, it turns out it's just
cheaper to go to ADP and ADP just
charges you like I don't know like 50
bucks a month per person that you might
be paying 100. It's a it's a poultry sum
compared to the overall amount of
payroll. So, nobody really switches
their payroll companies. Like that would
be an example of one. On the other side,
um I had a lot of companies in coming
out of 2022 where the market really went
through a downturn and they're like,
"Wait a minute. I'm spending four I I
had a thousand employees. Uh I downsized
to 200 employees. I had a,000 licenses
for Salesforce, right? What's a,000 time

$100 a month times 12? That's $1.2
million a year. Wow. Like that's a lot
of money because I only have 200
employees and I only have six months of
cash. Like I got to save that." and they
didn't do that for their payroll spent.
So you see it um uh like a lot of

companies do want to rationalize their
overall software cost especially for
these things where they recognize in
aggregate like most people aren't
actually using the seats. Um, so I'd say

like, you know, Salesforce type stuff.
## Which software gets cut first (13:32–16:22)
Um, you know, some of the creative tools
like if you like Adobe is very expensive

and you might just do like a
wall-to-wall license saying, why not?
But then you look at if you're like, how
do I save $5 million? Nobody's using
this. Well, it's $5 million. Whereas for
things where inextricably the delivery

and the payment are linked, right, which
is very very different than percemole.

Like obviously I'm not going to pay for
payroll services unless you were
employed here. Whereas I might like we
have 600 people that work at our firm. I
think we have 600 licenses from
Microsoft Office 365. Like we probably I

bet there are a lot of people here who
have not opened Microsoft Excel in a
year. So why are we paying for that? And
that would be the idea of kind of
rationalizing software spend. Um so it
it it kind of depends, but I think per
seed pricing where it's like it's just
easier to pay for the entire thing
wallto-wall, you know, your in your
entire organization, those are often the
first to go versus things that are again
inextricably linked to the actual usage.
>> Yeah. So you mentioned earlier that
we've seen you know basically you
mentioned uh there was this concern that
maybe instead of zenesk it will you know
companies will you know there'll be a
vibe coded version of it but we've seen
none of that. So, so far is your mental
model is we'll we'll see it to the in
examples where the the cost is
significantly high or in which there's
sort of green field opportunities or
what is sort of your mental model for
the types of software that will replace?
>> Yeah, I mean I think the green field one
is always true but when you look at
green field opportunities you need two
things to be true. You need the
entrepreneur to be very very patient and
say I'm not going to try to sell to
everybody who's if I'm if I'm starting a
net new payroll company I'm not going to
try to sell to GE because I recognize
that they are they are hostages to ADP
and that's never going to change. So one
is that patience of entrepreneur and the
other one is you just need a a high
enough rate of new company creation to
really make it work which is why um like

to pick on one space of electronic
health records or electronic medical
records how many new hospital systems
are created every day I mean it rounds
to zero so if I'm trying to go build a
new EHR system to go compete with Epic
or Cerner I can do that um there are a
lot of edge cases there but it's like
and I might have patience as an
entrepreneur but wait a minute like I
need to sell $5 million deals to big
hospital systems. Every single hospital
on Earth is currently using an EHR
system. Going to be really really hard
to make that work. So I think I think
both of those need to be true. Like the
right type of entrepreneur who's willing
to be patient because it's it's often a
very lonely game of it's like I built
this great product. Wait a minute. I
don't have any customers yet. And you
want to see high traction because you're
seeing in the rest of the market like
some companies are just going like this
and my company's not and I'm in Silicon
Valley and I need to recruit the best
people. It's like they want to work at
the company that has the graph like
this, but you need this green field
## Steel man: Brand and velocity as moats (16:22–17:44)
requires patience.
>> Yeah. The So, we're talking about how
Moes still matter and in in many ways
they look pretty similar. Let's steal
man the other side for a second. Why are
we even having this conversation where
some people say, "Hey, you know, brand
is the is is is shipping velocity or
because this era is different." What are
the what what's the steel man of of
their argument?
>> Well, look, I I think this market is
noisier than ever, right? And so I think
finding ways to sort of you know stand
out from the crowd probably matters more
today than it has you know in the past I
would argue. I think the other thing is
that the the underlying technology is
changing so quickly. And so you know as
a founder you want to be living on the
frontier and understanding kind of what
model capabilities look like because it
can dramatically change the the efficacy
or the the um you know the capability of
your underlying product. Um and so I
think you know um you know one of the
things that's changed I think that's
been really interesting in this sort of
um you know current wave of especially
vertical applications that we've seen is
is the type of founder. You know I think
founders today are often younger and
more technical than we've seen in in
prior generations. um you know and and
so they're less often native to the
particular industry but they're fluent
in the tool set right and I think that's
really important because you know to the
same point you you got to you got to
stay on the frontier and understand
what's coming at the same time you know
I wrote this piece that I call context
## Context is King (17:44–19:58)
is king you know while it is important
to understand you know model
capabilities and and what's happening in
the frontier
you still need to figure out how to
apply that technology and so while the
founders themselves are maybe less
native to the particular industry
they're still hiring for context, you
know, very early in a company's life
cycle. A good example of this that I I
sit on the board of is a company called
Eve. You know, the two founders of Eve
were the earliest employees at Rubric,
which is, you know, now a public
infrastructure company. Um, you know,
they built a legal AI company in the
plaintiff law space. Neither of them had
any particular background in in
employment law or or personal injury,
but they deeply understood, you know,
how to apply, you know, document
extraction technology and and sort of,
you know, voice and LLMs more broadly to
this very particular work, you know, uh,
workflow. And they've hired plaintiff
attorneys actually on staff. So anytime
a new model is released, you know,
they're understanding, you know, from
people in industry the impact that it's
having on on drafting on, you know,
their ability to, you know, to reason
through a case, you know, or a matter.
Um and so again it's sort of this
tension of like you know building the
brand having momentum you know
understanding what's happening on the
frontier and yet you know figuring out
ways to apply that technology in the
context you know of your specific
customer because again I I I deeply
believe that that is where a lot of the
sources of defensibility reside. You
know I'm I'd love to find other examples
of businesses is um where the technology
like reinforces their business model. It
doesn't compete with it. Meaning in lots
of areas of legal um if you make your
employee 50 times more efficient you're
eroding your billable hour. In their
business they operate at a contingency
basis meaning you know they only get
paid if they make if they win. So
there's no sort of limit to the amount
of AI that they want to adopt. Uh and if
you can become 5x more efficient you can
take on 5x more clients. Um anyway these

are sort of characteristics that I think
you know I'd love to find more of and
hopefully that can be kind of a bad
signal too. I think the other steelman
is if you believe that brand matters

which it almost taologically does
because what do I buy? I buy the thing
that I've heard of, right? So there's an
advantage there. And if you believe that
for a lot of companies and products,
## Feature vs. product vs. company (19:58–21:47)
somehow having scale is effective,
right? So not a network effect, but a
scale effect. So if I'm Honey Nut
Cheerios and I know that people are
going to buy lots of my Cheerios, I can
I can build a big factory and not, you
know, hand crank out each Cheerio. I'm
going to have these compounding
advantages just in terms of economies of
scale, right? Like Amazon is that does
that really have a network effect? No.
It's like it's kind of nice that
everything that I buy will show up the
next day or in two days and how can they
do that at low cost because so many
people are buying things. So there are
some things that have scale and those
things also benefit from brand. So if
you can move the fastest, right? So if
you can elomerate capital and labor so
it's like I raise the most money. It's a
very very generic idea, but somehow like

most other things on planet Earth, if
it's the biggest and like really really
big kind of gravitational scale, then
it's just going to work better. So, can
I get there the most quickly? But there
are 20 companies that are doing the
exact same thing. And at that point, I
wouldn't say that momentum is a moat per
se, but momentum has the highest chance
of getting you to gravitational scale
where you do have a moat. And if you
don't do that, by contrast, you're just
going to get eaten alive because you
can't hand crank out the Cheerios. You
you have to get to the scale where
you're able to build a factory. And with
the you have the biggest factory, you
can crank out the most things at the
lowest cost. So, what is the trajectory?
What is the slope of you versus all of
your competition? And if you have not a
good slope, um you're you're just not
going to win that game.
>> Yeah.
One of the questions for defensibility
in in web two companies was hey would
Google you know would those will they
some someday build this or or Facebook
or name your incumbent um in in the AI

era it's will open AI or will will some
other you know major company how should
compan how should we think about that
## Will OpenAI build everything? (21:47–24:04)
that framework in the AI era

>> you know I mean it's funny I feel like
18 months ago this uh you know GP GPT
rapper was on everybody's lips and I
think it was it was largely used as a
projorative you know, it's like and I
think, you know, to some degree, I think
there are some spaces where like the
model capability and the application
capability, if they're very overlapping,
I think you're in a in a risky spot, you
know. Um, but the reality is that
there's so many I think one of the
remarkable things that's happened is
there's so many markets that were never
particularly interesting to sell
software into that are now radically
interesting spaces to build companies
in. Again, in large part because, you
know, the market is now labor, not just
IT spend.
plaintiff law being an example, you
know, uh, you know, Alex has we have a
company called Salient in uh, applying
voice agents to autoloan servicing.

Five, six years ago, would we be backed
a software company selling to, you know,
non-bank auto lenders? Probably not. The
company's doing incredibly well. Again,
in large part because, you know, the
capability of being able to, you know,
uh speak in 50 languages, you know,
fully compliantly, you know, with with
customers in 50 states working 247,
um, you know, is just so differentiated,
you know, uh, versus the individual. And
they're finding that their ability to
collect is meaningfully higher, you
know, than than that labor that the that
the kind of costbenefit trade-off is so
dramatic. the company is getting a lot
of you know revenue from those customers
who may not have had um you know
millions of dollars of of IT budget
historically and are now very willing to
pay for a product like that you know
given the impact on the business
>> and and the way that we used to talk
about this a long time ago is uh and
this almost had a porative slant to it
but it's like are you building a feature
a product or a company and what's the
difference between the three well a
feature is like there's an existing
product and you tweak that product to
make it marginally better a product is,

you know, not that. It's like some
hopefully system of record or something
that keeps track of something and then
uh a company is probably the most
defensible of those three where you have
a product and you know maybe you own a
platform like the platforms tend to be
the most valuable companies but you know
a feature is like I've built a Chrome
plugin and that doesn't mean and there
by the way there were a lot of Chrome
plugins like Honey was a Chrome plugin
that got bought by four for for$4
## Steve Jobs told Drew Houston Dropbox was a feature (24:04–27:05)
billion like I wish I had done that
right that's that's a good feature but
that was a feature
you know, a product would be like, "Oh,
I built my own browser." And a company
is like, "All right, well, like my own
browser company actually makes money."
Like, you don't actually have a company,
even if you have 10 products, if you
don't have a sustainable path to have
that company be around in 10 or 20
years. Um, and I think kind of another
way of thinking about what David just
said is that now the features, like, you

know, the feature was the most porative
and seemingly small of all of those
three almost obviously. some of the
features can be incredibly profitable
because it's like wait a minute like
this it feels like a feature um because

it could get added to Salesforce right
or could get added to one of these other
things but the amount of money that I
can charge for my feature is like orders
of magnitude more because it's like hey
I'm going to be the front office
receptionist for your you know
orthodontic clinic like that's my job
like that's my that's that's that's the
feature and it sits on top of whatever
software you currently use, but the
feature I can now charge $20,000 a year
for because it is doing the job of
labor. But uh-oh, will the existing
product that my feature is riding on top
of, will they go build those those
pieces of functionality andor will
another company show up that just says,
"Hey, we're going to sell the green
field with a new product that kind of
has this feature set embedded." and you
know feature product company it still is
out there but um I've just never seen a
world where the features if you will can
can get to revenue scale as quickly and
by the way you you kind of often have to
start with the feature because a
customer isn't like think of it from the
customer's perspective the customer
being the business buyer of software
it's like I know I want to be locked
into a piece of uh software company
for 20 years that's what I'm looking for
as a buyer no it's like oo I have a
problem to solve my problem is I can't
hire a front office receptionist for my
orthodontic clinic or I can't call
people in Mandarin or Cantonese to go
like repay their auto loans. Like what
do I do? Oh, something shows up and it
offers that functionality. Boom, I'm a
buyer. And then that functionality has
to that that feature has to backfill
product, backfill company as quickly as
possible. So that's still true today as
it was 10 or 20 or 30 years ago. Um but

the difference again is that the feature
the the revenue for the feature is just
so high and the demand for it is so high
because again in many cases you're just
responding to help wanted ads
effectively.
>> Yeah. And so I think the effect of that
is that there's been sort of like a
Cambrian explosion of interesting
markets to go after you know I think
it's unrealistic to believe that like
OpenAI is going to go build you know the
the the you know front office assistant
for the you know the dental clinic like
as their core you know kind of business.
They're not going to do that across
every single market. I think the other
dynamic is that for many of these
companies, part of the product value is
actually orchestrating the work across
lots of different model companies. And
so I think having one, you know, uh, you
know, foundation model business, you
know, going kind of up the stack, I
think limits the actual impact of the
actual of the application, you know,
potentially as well.
>> Well, I think that, you know, if you
## Platform risk: Will they compete or tax you? (27:05–30:06)
kind of think about this versus other
platform companies. Um, so Facebook was

the pre-minent platform company of of
web 2.0. So call it from when whenever
they opened up Facebook platform which I
think it was like 2007.
Um people built their businesses on top
of Facebook. Facebook would never do
those particular things. Like so
Facebook is never going to show up and
say hey you know what we should build a
farming game. Like they were like no
we're going to have a platform that
allows companies like Zingga to build
these farming games. But what the
platform normally does if they don't
actually go compete with the the
underlying products is they say, "I'm
going to tax it, but I'm going to tax it
in ways that are kind of at my fancy. So
this week it's 10% taxes. That's my
promise. Oh, wait. I changed my mind.
Now it's going to be 40% taxes." So
that's why it's always dangerous to
build on somebody else's platform. So I
think the two things to look at are
number one is will the platform owner
compete with what I'm doing? Um, and
that's also another Goldilock zone
question, right? Because why is it I I
published this graph of VisiCalc versus
Lotus 123 versus Excel. So VisiCalc

invented the spreadsheet in 1979 had
100% of the market because they were the
only player in town. Lotus built a
better version of that. Uh Lotus got to
like I think 70% market share by 1985
which was when Microsoft released Excel
for uh a Mac. Um and then by 2000 uh

Microsoft had 96% market share. And why
is it because they owned Windows? Like
the the platform owner normally wins.
So, but that's because it was just such
a hu like why do I buy a computer in
1997 because I want to use a spreadsheet
like it was just so intrinsically
linked. Like that was one of the main
use cases for computers and business
use, right? It's like using
spreadsheets. So that was like violator
of Goldilock zone. Whereas other things
where it's like all you have to worry
about from the platform owner is that
they're going to tax you, but they might
tax you in very very bizarre ways. But
uh part of what David was saying in
terms of like there are multiple model
companies, which is great. Like the
problem with Windows was that it was
like 95% of the market. Like 95% of your

customers used Windows. So if I'm going
to go build a competing spreadsheet, I'm
just toast because the platform owner is
just going to drown me. Um now there are

five model companies or you know more

like when you include all the Chinese
models and whatnot open source like I
don't have to worry about that. But I do

have to worry about them saying, "Wow,
this is so relevant." Like, why is it
that OpenAI got a public company CEO to

quit her job and just to become the CEO
of of applications at OpenAI? Maybe
because they have a huge application
opportunity. But this is the nice thing
is that a lot of these things are so
obscure, but they're still big. But I

don't think OpenAI is going to go do
them because it's like, are they going
to do like dental care management? like
they they could, but if they've done
that, then I would be short Open AI
because it's like they've run out of
good stuff to do.
>> Um, that's something that they should do
in 2029. And then this is I think I told
you this this story before. This is I I
this changed my outlook on life when I
## The "gold bricks" conversation with Dan Rose (30:06–33:38)
pitched this guy Dan Rose at Facebook
who was running business development
there. I'm like, "This is a huge
opportunity. You should use us for
payments. We're going to do this. We can
make so much money for Facebook." And he
was so patient and nice and I I love
this guy. I'm on a board with him to
this day. He was like, "Alex, that's
such a great idea." I was like, "All
right, I got the deal." Yes. He said,
"It's a great idea, but we're not going
to do it because you're pitching me a
go. Like, we have gold bricks all around
us." Like, and he was right. I mean,
like Facebook in 2010, I mean, how much
money Facebook has grown their revenue
pro? They they have more profit every
quarter today than they had revenue per
year in 2010. It's just such an
incredible company. And he's like,
"You're pitching me a gold brick that's
like 100 feet away." And it's real. like
I love that gold brick, but we have like
hundreds of gold bricks where I just
have to like stoop down at my feet and
pick them up. So, I'm just not going to
do that one right there. And that's how
these big companies think. Um but the
nice thing is that these are gold brick.
These gold bricks are bigger than
they've ever been because you have
software that can do the job of labor.
>> Yeah. Um, which on that note, if if you
were uh running OpenAI and you were
thinking about wh which gold bricks or
how do you even what mental model to
think about sort of what what are the
things that you should be doing first
versus things that hey maybe let let
other people do it. How would you be
thinking about that question?
>> I mean I think a lot of it is where well
it's it's two things. Number one is we
want to be the backend for everybody
like the platform. I think it's two
things. Number one is can we be the
platform for pretty much everybody who's
building anything. So, we're not going
to go in these into these obscure spaces
like, you know, orthodontic care, uh, at
least not until, you know, 2045. So,
let's make sure that every single
developer is using us. Um, and this is

part of why Microsoft crushed Apple in
the 1980s because Apple made it really
hard to develop software. Um, and what's
actually kind of interesting is that
both Apple and Microsoft um, had like
Microsoft started off as a compiler
company. Like their very very first
products, they were not Microsoft
Office, it was not DOSs. They built a
basic interpreter um for the programming
language basic and they had a big
business. Their their biggest competitor
was Borland um which only made compilers

and like the early rallying cry if you
talk to any early Microsoft employee was
beat Philippe. Philippe Khan was the CEO
of Borland. So Microsoft was focused on
that made a lot of money on that and
Apple was like we should make money on
that too and they had a product it was
called MPW uh Macintosh programmers
workshop. I remember I used to use it in
the 1980s and uh it was like $2,000 I

think in 1980s money to buy this you

know IDE or you know programming uh
thing and uh it's like how do you afford

that? So like but it was like we have to
make money on that. Microsoft's making
money on this and then lo and behold
there were like 10,000 times more you
know DOSs and Windows software products
than there were Macintosh software
products. And of course, Apple corrected
that mistake when the iPhone came out
when they now like Xcode, which is the
way that you build products for um for
Mac products or Macintosh and and iPhone

iOS, it's free. So like they they kind
of corrected that mistake. Um but I'd
say two things to answer your question.
Number one is can we be the biggest
consumer brand in the world? So Chat GBT
has 800 million weekly active users.
Like get that to five billion, right?
Like is even if Gem Gemini 3 came out
today, it might be five times better.
But are people that are using chat GPT
just as consumers, are they going to
switch? Like maybe, but it's unlikely
just because they kind of make that
their their default and then be the
backend for everybody who's building
anything. And that way it's like kind of
all the gold bricks kind of come to you.
I think the other uh thing that we
should anticipate, we're already
beginning to see from some of these big
model companies are like what are the
## What OpenAI should prioritize (33:38–35:26)
big horizontal applications that they
can likely sell to every you know large
enterprise. And I think you know you saw
today with you know Google's uh
anti-gravity launch like the ID is going
to be one of those things. I think like
that you know if there's like product
market fit for for LMS like you know
coding is definitely you know one of the
top categories. Um so I think that you
know thinking about what are the big
horizontal kind of applications in the
enterprise. I think there's also to some
degree and you know we'll I think this
has been earlier to sort of play out.
It's sort of the palunteer opportunity.
I think we're still very early in in
sort of the proliferation of this
technology into large enterprise. Um at
the same time you know unlike prior
product cycles you know you know like
the cloud if I'm the CEO of a large
public company and I'm asking myself do
I need to be in the cloud? It was sort
of an esoteric idea. you know, today I

can plug a, you know, prompt into any
one of these models and intuitively
understand the impact that it could have
on my business, right? The the
efficiency gains in my customer support
organization, in my engineering
organization, in all of my back office
functions. At the same time, many of
them don't know where to start. And so I
think you will see sort of this
consultative sort of forward deployed
palunteer-esque sort of sale into very
large enterprise from some of these, you
know, big model companies. Again, I
think we're early in that, but you've
you've heard inklings of this with um
you know, with Enthropic talking about
wanting to build into financial services
and and other markets. So, you know, I
agree. I think the biggest opportunities
are the one that Alex is describing, but
I think you will see them selectively,
you know, try to build kind of
applications that cut cut across every
one of those and then they'll probably
choose, you know, a few sort of like
lighthouse customers to build, you know,
largely bespoke kind of custom
integrations into these, you know,
bigger enterprises. But where are the
ACBs,
>> you know, just really make sense.
>> In in in web two, there was a lot of
## Will AI consolidate to winner-take-most? (35:26–39:16)
winner takemost. Um, you were talking
about one of the benefits in AI is that
there's multiple winners. To to what
extent is is consolidation in in
inevitable or how do you think sort of
this this plays out? Well, I think if

you have 20 companies that are all doing
the same thing, um, what has
historically happened is that it's a bad

market if there are 20 companies doing
it, but then I don't know, the bottom 15
just go bankrupt. Um, and then maybe
there's some consolidation where number
one buys number two, number two buys
number three, and assuming that we have
a functional FTC and whatnot, it's like
all of this is approved because it's not
like you're taking this is like
orthodontic clinic answering software or
something. Um so and then what was a bad

market becomes a good market. Um and

this kind of goes back to like why
momentum is important because if you
have 20 companies that are all at the
exact same scale um then it's actually
great for the customer which is like the
the prices go to zero um or they
converge on the price of electricity.
Whereas if you this is not saying you
want to go build a monopoly in
orthodontic answering software or
something but rather you can charge more
if you get to a certain scale because
whatever the the quality of the product
that you're delivering at the end of the
day is just higher um and you have to
get to the critical scale to get there
and sometimes you just need these
markets to to work themselves out. I
mean like when I was running my company
trial pay we had I don't know 20
competitors and it was tough because
it's like you know um everybody would be
pricing their product at a loss you know
this this loss leader only works if you
end up leading with like you have to
make money at the end and nobody really
had a plan for that because the venture
capital dollars were really subsidizing
everything and that does not get a good
market. what does become a good market
at the end and sometimes this is what
you know Vista the private equity firm
would do is like we're going to buy one
as our anchor we're going to go lowball
um and put the other five out of their
misery and now we end up with actually a
pretty good product at the end or a
pretty good business at the end pretty
good company at the end so I think that
will probably play out the same way here
because you just can't have a market
where you have everybody lossle leading

um and nobody's big enough to get any
kind of scale effects um is there going
to be a world where the the 19th player
survives. I mean, Jack Welch uh would

always say you have to be number one or
number two and there's no value to being
number three through 100. I don't think
that's changed.
>> Right. Right.
>> Even in the model provider example and
I'm also curious if prices go down.
>> Yeah. I I don't I don't see how like
there actually are I mean people know
XAI, Anthropic, OpenAI, Gemini, like

they they know or Quen um they they know
the big ones but there are actually
there's a long tale of things that
people haven't heard of um where it's

like they've raised lots of money. It's
just like not it it's it works fine, but
how can you surv like the model company
is the most cutthroat because like
unless you're state if you're
state-of-the-art minus minus minus and
you're trying to earn a living, it's
just like that that's just not going to
work. So that game is super cutthroat. I
think I think the one area where that um
may have diverged and Martine talks
about this a lot is like um you know
when markets are growing so quickly you
you end up having specialization and so
I think in other kind of modalities you
know in in some of the creative tools or
you know people have specialized to like
serve you know the up market you know
like I'm I'm producing you know movies
okay I want to create sort of like
social you know quality content like
these are different you know markets
that that the models can kind of
specialize in time will tell you know
how sort of uh you defensible those
become over time. But um maybe that's
the optimistic take that like you know
early on everything looks you know
overlapping and competitive but we're
still so you know the market is growing
that everything can kind of expand and
people can kind of specialize over time.
>> Earlier when you were talking about the
## Why Dropbox survived anyway (39:16–43:48)
feature versus product didn't Steve Jobs
once tell Drew Hston that Dropbox was
was just a feature.
>> Yeah. I mean that that's why it's always
been this porative thing but that's
that's kind of the point that I was
getting to is that nobody wants to like
oh I need this company. No, it's like I
need this feature. Um, every now and
then you see a product that is not a
feature because it's just like so far
out of left field. Like nobody was
anticipating chat GPT dominating their
daily workflow in 2022 in October. Um,

but then once it came out, it was this
like, holy crap, I this is incredible.
And that's not a feature. You could
argue it's a feature on top of your
iPhone, but no, the iPhone is the
delivery mechanism. That's a that's a
product. Um, and they they've obviously
turned that into a company. Whereas
other things it kind of is like, you
know, why is there anti virus software?
That almost doesn't make any sense.
Like, shouldn't the operating system
stop you from getting viruses? Like, why
do you need a third party tool to do
synchronization between devices? But it
turns out like the reason why Dropbox
has survived and thrived since Steve
Jobs made that comment is like it's
really hard to do well. Um, and there's
a lot of other things like once you've
built that feature, you can backfill
with all sorts of other product, which
is what Dropbox has done a pretty good
job of, but it is hard because this is
the the danger of building on somebody
else's platform is that, you know, I'm
going to build this thing that they
should have had, right, if they had the
foresight. Um, and if it doesn't operate
in the Goldilock zone, right, it's like,
wow, this is so this will like triple
Apple's profits. Let's just say that
Dropbox would have tripled Apple's
profits. Would they have dropped every
would they have focused on building that
versus the iPad or something, whatever
like Steve's last gizmo was, like sure.
But if it's kind of in this like
Goldilock zone of irrelevance like
janitorial services, it's like yeah,
they should do that. But, you know,
platform owners get lazy. Um, this is
why like, you know, half the things on
my iPhone don't really work if they're
built by Apple. um try like any any
parent that's listening to this if
they've tried screen time it's just like
an embarrassment upon humanity and
because they don't have to go sell as a
it's like they don't have to compete on
feature they compete on the fact they
don't even compete they just like
they're the platform they roll it out
it's going to be bad and that does
create an opportunity for somebody to
come up with the feature and actually
out compete the um the platform but like
you have to be careful because it's like
obviously the platform owner is going to
go compete with you and that's why often
what I find very compelling about
entrepreneurs when they know this like
they've studied how is it that from
every single platform shift from like
you know we were talking about AC versus
DC current like there have always been
these battles for like who's going to be
the underlying you know layer um the

best entrepreneurs have studied this and
they have a plan they're like I know I
have a feature like Drew knew this he's
like I know that like there's this
stupid comment on hacker news it's like
oh this is just like our sync with this
that and the other thing it's like yeah
of course Drew knows that but he built
this into a $10 billion company because
like he had a plan and the best
entrepreneurs they often like okay I
know it's not this naive it's like oh
I'm going to build this there's no way
that they're going to build it because
they're too dumb and stupid it's like no
they're not like these companies if they
get their act together they will
marshall a lot of resources to go
compete with you it might take them 5
years but they will 100% do it you have
to backfill your feature with a product
and you have to have a moat for that
product as opposed to like oh yeah like
the big company will never figure this
out it's like that's not True. I I think
what's also unique, I I wrote this piece
a while ago called the messy inbox
problem and [snorts] it was sort of a
wedge strategy that we've been observing
across lots of different industries and
it's just this idea that um you hook
into a bunch of your different
unstructured data sources. Could be
email, could be fax, could be phone. Um
you know, Tenor as an example has
trained a model to be able to extract
all the relevant patient information
from those data sources to plug it
downstream into some system of record.
in their case in EHR, but this exists in
a CRM, an ERP, um, what have you. And I

think that that wedge for that feature
is interesting in large part because it
lives upfunnel from software, right?
You're replacing the kind of human level
judgment of the individual. Like often
that ad, you know, the secretary sort of
like collecting the physical facts and
then plugging it into the HR. And so now
a bunch of AI companies can kind of, you
know, wedge in and then eat away at all
the downstream workflows that might have
been their point solution software
companies. And so, you know, Tener is no
longer just doing, you know, the messy
inbox. They're now doing scheduling and
prior, you know, uh, prior and
eligibility benefits. Um, and they've
used that wedge to try to become, you
know, kind of the endtoend platform.
## The messy inbox wedge strategy (43:48–44:06)
Eventually, maybe they become the system
of record. Um but again because you can
kind of replace the human labor now with
software um I think it's creating
opportunities for these you know
features to actually become products and
you know in in their case I think become
you know whole companies. Well, I think
I think this is the thing that in my
mind is very dramatically different than
## Why AI is different: It's consensus (44:06–48:18)
every other platform shift is that the

the it is just so consensus like cloud

was not consensus, mobile was not
consensus and that's why the incumbents
kind of screwed up where it's like and
then sometimes it was just like
completely um I'll use the the Silicon
Valley term orthogonal to their to their
business model because it's like I sell
$5 million a year products and wait a
minute I'm going to charge $100,000 a
month. like that's just hard like how do
I pay my sales people? How do I make my
quarterly numbers? So that's why like
you know workday beat peopleoft um or

that's why you know Salesforce beat
Sevil. Um so all of these things played
out but behind it was this concept of
it's like that new thing that iPhone is
stupid. Um like there's no version of
the the famous Steve Balmer clip of like
him saying this nobody's going to buy an
$800 phone with no keyboard. Um there's
no version of that for AI. It's like how
do you find a big CEO or even a small
CEO is like nobody will use that tool
that makes you a hundred times more
productive of of course and this is why

it's it's kind of a bonanza for most of
the incumbents as well because anybody
who has a system of record will add a
button or a feature to use our parlance
that will make them more money. Um so
like they're just kind of gold bricks
everywhere. And the challenge though is

that there isn't this this kind of white
space to occupy in the same way that
there was for cloud or for mobile or for
a lot of the web 2.0 things where it's
like you just like the incumbents
screwed up. They weren't paying
attention. They scoff at this new
technology. Like nobody's scoffing at
this new technology. Like everybody's
just trying to embrace it. But, you
know, the opportunity often exists where
a lot of the areas that just seem too
small that don't have an incumbent at
all. Like those actually might turn out
to be like, you know, trillions of
dollars of value. And that's kind of
what makes it much more exciting than
like last gen where it's like, oh, I'm
just going to copy everything that was
on prem and make it, you know, recurring
billing cloud and I'm going to do that
at a time when like the big guys say
that's stupid and I don't get it. So
some argue that you know mobile was was
ultimately sustaining and that although
there were you know net new companies
and use cases that were you know hundred
billion dollars like Uber and Airbnb etc
that uh you know the incumbents you know
some of them became trillion dollar
companies you know guided by mobile when
we look at the you know business impact
of of the AI era um what's your mental
model for thinking about sort of the
incumbent startup or kind of net new
company in terms of you know value
capture
>> I I I think a lot of it is the same like
unless you really screw up the the
pricing model or like you know you're
all per seat pricing it's very very hard
to just get the market to adopt
something that is just violently
different and you're operating in the
public eye and your technology team is
bad there there are a lot of ants that
need to happen I have a hard time
believing that incumbents will really
suffer um I mean there probably are some
things like you know take take like one
example of and this kind of goes back to
distribution versus technology like all

of these business process outsourcing
companies these BPOS they're the largest
employers on the planet. So like Tata,
Whipro, Infosys. So if I'm JP Morgan and
I say I need a call center and this call

center needs to have access to like
customer records and it needs to be safe
and everybody needs to be trained like
and I need to have like a 100,000 people
that can answer the phone. You know who
can do that for you? Infosys, right? Or
Tata. Um Tata has already done the

integration with JP Morgan in this case.
they might just add AI and now they
don't need a h 100red thousand people
and they maintain that JP Morgan
contract and they operate in the the
area of the Goldilock zone where it's
like they're going to make like a
hundred times more money. That that's
one case. That's the bull case for Tata.
The bare case is like JP Morgan's like
wait a minute like we should partner
with the startup to do this or we should
do this ourselves and now like Tata

loses that relationship altogether. And
it could go either direction. Like you I
think a lot of these things are really
up for grabs. But I I think the the
default is that the incumbents probably
will do well. But you can pick a lot of
these cases. I mean this is why you see
the public markets kind of don't know
what to do
>> where there is a case that is very very
bad for a lot of software companies. But
## Jobs won't disappear—$1 tasks will explode (48:18–49:30)
there's an alternative case which is
like if you operate in the right
goldilock zone um and you're you know
you have the right momentum to actually
build these things and embrace these new
technologies like you'll maintain all of
your customer relationships um and
you're just going to have a more
profitable business and it's not that
you're going to do this like the the
most compelling thing I think about AI
that almost everybody gets wrong is like
oh it's going to destroy all the jobs
like our our beloved representative uh
from Silicon Valley is like trying to
like eliminate AI that's just so crazy
that our elected representative wants to
turn us back to farmers of of tangerines
and whatnot in in Silicon Valley, but um

which which again I think is crazy, but
[snorts]
uh it's not like all the jobs will go
away. I actually think that's not going
to happen at all. What's going to happen
is there are a lot of things where it's
like if I could hire somebody for a
dollar to do this task, I would 100% do
that. I cannot hire somebody for a
dollar. I've never been able to hire
somebody for a dollar. Now I can hire
software for a dollar. So a lot of these
tasks like you know look at how many
people took taxis post Uber right and

it's like did you hear people say like
you probably took an Uber to get here
today right would you have taken a taxi
20 years ago like no way right because
## The Uber/taxi lesson for AI (49:30–50:45)
it's like where would you find the taxi
how would you arrange the tax it's just
like way too complicated whereas once
you make it very very abundant and less
expensive like everybody's going to use
this and I think that's the that's what
Ro Kana and and his ilk are missing
which is it's not like oh I'm going to
go and say, "I'm going to like eliminate
all the jobs." Like, think of it in that
JP Morgan example that I just mentioned.
It's like, wouldn't it be cool if every
single customer of JP Morgan Chase could
have their own personal friend that they
could talk to every single day there
that would help them with every single
element of their financial life? Or it's
like, I'm stuck downloading the app. I
can't figure out how to get it set up.
Oh, talk to somebody in real time that
will help you about that. Why don't they
do that? It's just like the cost is
known. It's high. And then the value is
probably low. And as soon as you can
bring the cost down to zero, now you're
going to start hiring AI in all of these
different areas that you just would
never bother hiring a human for because
it's just like you can't train the
human, you can't find the human, and the
human's too expensive.
>> I think it's a good place to wrap, guys.
Thanks for coming to the podcast. Most
don't matter.
>> Yeah.

>>